Dude. Stop saying you are not good at things. You are probably the most clear headed and goal oriented 19 yr old I have come across in my life ( including myself). The way you have put your thoughts across and have diagnosed the root cause of your problem, tells me that you have clarity of thought and are capable of conveying that to the other person very well. You are worried about your career prospects and job opportunities at 19. You know what I was worried about when I was 19 - about the Gujarati classmate I had a crush on was dating someone else. LOL!

If I had your clarity of thought and goals when I was 19, I would have gone places in life🙂. 

For now you gotta do two things

1.	Pick up a hobby. Music, art, games, sports, movies, drama, volunteering or anything else. Only criteria should be that you enjoy it and it shouldn’t feel like a chore. Find an online community in that area and get yourself involved with the community. Once you have gained some foothold in your hobby, find a real world community in your college that is interested in the hobby. If it doesn’t exist, try starting one - even if it means 2-3 other people.

2.	 your arrears - your approximate life span is going to be another 50 years at least. Why are you in a hurry to get things done. Slow down and take up 1 arrear per semester. That would allow you to clear them without racking up more. There is a good probability you ll rack up a few more. But always focus on taking up just 1 arrear per semester. I have had friends clear 20+ arrears and then go on to become successful people in life. Life is long and slow. Don’t think that you are slow. Because ones journey can be slow only if there is an end goal. But the end goal is the journey itself. So slow or fast is not really a thing. It is all just relative 

3.	if you don’t think you want to be a software engineer, then don’t. You seem to have a pretty good handle with writing and conveying messages. I think someone else also suggested product/program management and project management roles for you. Consider them. You don’t need a special degree for them. You need to be organized, be able to communicate effectively, be able to write well and be able to convince people. I believe you are capable of all these qualities. Seriously consider product management roles. They are HOT! And some of the biggest names in the world worked as product managers ( including Sundar Pichai)

Finally - 

We all came from the same star dust and we will all go back to the same stars. The point of life is to live. Watch this interview by Brian Cox - he explains what is the point of a finite life in an infinite universe. It is to live. The statistical chance of creation of human life in an empty cold universe is about 1 in a billion or something. The probability of you being born is again a 1 in billion. So take advantage of this life and live it. 

I can't give you an advice on your life or judge you but my advice will take care of your mental health if you follow it.

College is not the end of life. Mental health is a real issue and many people don't take it seriously. 

My advice to people in your age is to stop masturbation.(most do it, sorry if you don't have the habit) You can get help from r/nofap. 

Go to a nearby gym 3-4 days a week and you will get a supernatural confidence, make that your hobby. These negative thoughts are not yourself but mind games.

Suicidal tendencies and depression are games of the mind and Suicide is not a solution, it will give more pain to your parents. Imagine, do you want to give more pain to yourself and your parents.

I repeat, go to a gym and no fap, it will change everything

Bro Ida patha en carrear nybagam varudu like that only i did my engineering first sem all clear second sem 1 3 Rd and 4 th sem wash out. Enakum ena nadakudu valkayla therela just confidence build Pani daily padichen 5 th sem and like free time arrear exam padichen class listen panen apdiye out of 11 arrear na 6 clear panen and 5 th sem 1 vilunduchu 6 th sem 4 paper clear panen  7 th all panen na off campus nalla company place ayten just confidence build Pani daily padinga intrest edutu nenga podura effort engayavadu use agum valkayla. Daliy padinga adan advice innela irundu.

Just take a resolution that u will never ever even think about harming yourself in ANY manner again. It's difficult. But read what you have written. Look at the number of instances where you have thought about harming yourself. 

No, your life is not over. It's not over until you think it is over. 

Here's my favourite quote from my favourite teacher:

"If you think you can do something, you might do it. If you think you can't do it, you are right! ". 

Also, working for a startup is not a bad idea at all. All i can say is, don't have a closed mindset towards anything. Try exploring! 

The only attitude you should have towards life is "enna nadandhaalum paathukalam". If you need to share anything, feel free to ping me.

Lots of great advice in this thread. But remember thambi, you are doing so, SO well. 

You speak harshly about yourself and blame yourself even when you were going through serious mental health issues as a CHILD. Depression, anxiety, and addiction (including phone addiction) are medical issues that deserve treatment even if it was not available to you. It is NOT your fault that your parents are emotionally abusive to you, even if they tell you that it’s your fault. Thappa nanachikaada, our parents did the best they could with what they know. But it seems your parents (just like mine) are not equipped to raise kids in the 21st century, where independence and believing in yourself are keys to success in the business world no matter what industry. Forgive them for what they did not know. Forgive YOURSELF for doing the best you fucking could under the circumstances, even if you tripped and fell sometimes along the way. 

Kanna, you became a legal adult only recently, so let me tell you the secret of success — forgiving yourself for your mistakes, loving yourself unconditionally, and parenting yourself. And when I say “parenting”, I don’t mean “criticizing yourself over every little mistake”. You have to remind yourself that you have character defects just like every other human being — but you are NOT a defective character. YOU are not a failure, you are a work in progress that faces successes and failures. 

Self-love sounds like some easy flowery shit, but seriously it is my biggest challenge. Andha self-love journey kashtamaa irukkum, aana adhula thaan vaazhkai thripthi aa irukkum. Your sense of joy and happiness can ONLY come from within yourself, NOT from someone or something else. Your parents, friends, or romantic partners cannot give you true joy even if they love you. You can’t find true fulfillment in a diploma or exam result. Job la irukkaadhu, college admission la irukkaadhu, panam la irukkaadhu, pills la irukkaadhu, sarakku la irukkaadhu, phone la irukkaadhu, inspirational youtube video la irukkaadhu, kovil/mosque/church layum irukkaadhu. Even if all of these things feel good for a moment, when they leave you and you are alone with nothing and no one but yourself — do you love yourself even then? Do you love the swami/God/Allah/holiness/spirit that YOU are?

Self-love is a journey, not a destination. Don’t give up because you are not there yet. Us internet strangers don’t want you to give up. Nee ippa thaan un vaazhkai e arambikkara, only now have you started writing the story of your life. You have sooooo much time ahead of you, even if you decided to fuck off for a year and do absolutely nothing!

Thambi you are going to be just fine. Don’t listen to what ignorant people say about missing the boat — life is about building your own fucking boat and setting sail. Someday in the future, maybe you’ll look back at today and congratulate yourself for making it through this tough time. At the very least, know that I am congratulating YOU right now for being here today after all you’ve been through. Come give us an update on all the fun things you’re doing later.

Hey bro, please don’t think about anything extreme. I know it’s hard to understand how this situation will pass at this time. But ithuvum kadanthu pogum. 

IT industry is chaotic by its very nature. You would think everything is fine but very next hour, you will be hit by production bug or something that will disrupt your rhythm and have you jump through hoops to get something or other working. As an engineer working in IT, impostor syndrome is very real and couple that with depression, sometimes I feel stuck in a cage struggling to breathe. But I have a family and I have to go on for them and I do. Sometimes I wish mental health was taken seriously in India but it is not. 

If I may offer a suggestion, just take any job at this time. You may have to suffer through work, particularly in startups but it will get you away from your family and will give you sense of independence. At the very least, you don’t have to put up with abuse from your family. 

Try taking life one day at a time. I always listen to, “oru naalil vaazhkai” from puthupettai on a loop when I feel dark. Find a song that does the same for you. If you can’t don’t worry. Not the end of the world. Just breathe and remember, “Ithuvum kadanthu pogum”.

don't compare yourself with others mate, also don't get jealous looking at your friends, life is not fair, it will never going to be fair, so stop bitching about yourself, try to clear the papers and get a degree.

threatening your parents going to work for one or two times, but not going to work all the time. Instead, it makes them prepare for the worst. so stop doing that shit.

I was not gonna comment here since you already got really good people helping you out here. But I remember when my younger sister called me in the middle of the night and cried for 10 mins straight and ended the call. The next day she told me she was staring at a knife in front of her and didn't know what to do. She was bit older than you, 21 I guess. She was in PG, all alone, away from home. She was in college, SRM doing MBA. All her friends lived together in an apartment. So she was truly alone. I am not one to answer calls usually, never at nights. But I am glad I picked it up that night. 

So this is what I'll tell you. Sweetie, it doesn't matter who you are with, where you are. My family is fucked up too. I have two sisters and none of the choices I made till after college was our own. And all three of us have had thoughts like you at some point or the other.  It's easy to succumb to these issues when you are young and you feel alone.

You need to find one person, or a few people if you're lucky, you can count on. Someone who's been there for you, who will be there for you. No one else matters, their opinions, their lives don't matter. Their advice, how good their lives are, their problems. 

You hate your parents what they've done and what they haven't. It's okay. Don't ruin your life because of that. After the first 21 years, your life is yours if you know how to navigate in our society. If you can stand up to your family, you can have the life you always wanted. You can't change people who don't want to change. You can't expect love from someone who's got none left to give. 

As far college, I know people who had helluva backlogs and cleared them in one go after college ended. You will have time, sweetie. Trust me. It's about one step a time. You want to clear your arrears now, focus on it. If you want to land a job, focus on just that. If you want to develop your skills, that's what you do. You do everything at once, you'll be overwhelmed.

You can have the job you want if you know what you exactly want. I did engineering too, something I was forced to do. A lot of my friends never got into IT field, even remotely engineering. I got into data visualisation. It depends on what you're interested in.

The job market is kinda mess right now. But you'll find your way. Most people you see and wonder how they got their life together, trust me, they haven't. They are muscling through. They are winging it as they go.

So that's what you do. Have an idea of what you want in life. Build from there. You'll realise all this school, college, marks, none of it matters after a couple of years. It'll take time to get there, but you will.

I also hope you find a good therapist and get the necessary help you need. I think you do.

Love.

Hey man!! You ok bro now?? Please update

[removed]

🫂

Seems like you're quite tough , so stay as one .

Stay Strong and all the best .

*DONT BLAME *  DON'T REGRET  * DON'T LOOK BACK * 

( Cry now and then , anger is better than phenyl)

You are a very intelligent guy. Have faith in yourself that you will succeed in life. Unfortunately intelligent guys will become outcast during college years, because no one might understand you.

You think differently,which is good

Don’t let anyone (even your parents) downgrade you.Remember you can’t change your parents’ mindset, because they are hard wired like that.

Efforts to commit suicide will be seen as cowardliness to your parents, they won’t trust you or understand you if you do that.

There is still morrrrreeee timw for you to succeed in life.chill.

Do you have sibilings?? Sometimes talking to them will make you feel better.

You have few things going for you.

1. Very good English. Most kids from tier-3 cities have serious disadvantage here.

2. Common sense, and clarity in your thoughts

3. Intelligent

Once you complete your degree and get into a job, nobody cares about your backlogs, 10th/12th marks, even degree marks. These only matter if you want to do PG.

Somethings you should aim for:

1. Finish your degree in 4 years. Doesn't matter if you have backlogs in between as long as you finish in 4 years. 

2. Find out what you are good at. Most kids in ECE typically go into IT field. If that is your aim, figure out some area in IT you are interested in and train yourself rigorously. This is more important than getting good marks in the degree. Same applies even if you want to go non-IT.

3. Your college might have "okay" placement, but may not be great. But if you are technically sound, you don't even need college placement to get a job. You can find it yourself. You just need initiative. Find companies you are interested in and apply for internship. These are easier to get than jobs. If you can impress your managers in internship, you will be offered job. You can also do freelance work (or even free work) which will gain you experience.

4. Don't let your parents rail you up. Concentrate on yourself and your career, rest will automatically fall in place.

I literally have experienced all that you did, except that mine started in 11th. Topper in 10th, emotionally unavailable parents, phone addiction began in 11th, flunked my 11th exams, was asked to leave my school midway in 12th as I could not clear my exams, cut myself, drank Harpic, my parents said the same shit, got into a mediocre school somehow and got 75% in 12th, got into a mediocre arts college.

I used to get panic attacks everytime I was facing an exam and I'd skip some of my internals. After explaining my situation to my professors, some of them were understanding and helped me retake my tests. It was then that I realised that I should take my life in my control and studied hard and got the third rank. For my PG, I got into one of the reputed arts college in Chennai and was among the top five there as well. 

I still continue to live with my parents who are extremely emotionally abusive, manipulative always gaslighting me and blackmailing me. I'm trying to find a job in a different city but I'm not able to. But I won't stop trying to because my urge to leave the house will always continue to push me forward. So, maybe you can try keeping that as a motive and study hard, clear your backlogs and find a job elsewhere. Don't bow down to your parents if they are abusive, please! It'll be the biggest thing you do to yourself, so please, don't listen to them.

Dude ,i know of a friend who cleared his arrears after 5 years and he's made his way to working in an American company, you'll be fine don't worry after sometime you realise that all the things that you were afraid of weren't even that big of a thing 

Pick up some. Good hobbies ,gym , musical instruments and read books, been reading this book called atomic habits and its given me such a different perspective,

What i can say for sure is you're just 19 and you have all the opportunity to go figure out the world so don't put yourself down and remember the true worth of a man is not where he stands in times of comfort but during times of adversity..

Seeing your post I don't think your parents are abusive or not supportive, but you just being toxic and wasting away time. Talk with them instead of getting addicted to phone or doing stupid stuff to seek attention. If they're buying you everything you want, they will talk but you need to listen first.

Go see a good psychology counselor because your entire post is basically "I am a spoiled jealous brat ruining my life not putting efforts".

I hope your parents will forgive your toxic nature and arrange  for CBT and proper medication .

If you can DM me I'll suggest a good therapist, they charge around 1k per session and it's over Google meet only but worth every penny. You need a safe space to overcome your emotions, that's all,  you will find everything falls into place once you're in control.

And bro, one more help. Apart from this project manager, content writer or copy writer, are there any other professions for writing and usage of words. 

I blindly wanted to jump on the IT bandwagon cos there's this societal hype and I was always afraid that I would never be able to make the same amount of money as people of non-IT jobs do. 

Not to mention, I always longed for a liberal friends group and heard that IT offices have mostly liberal circles. So, that's another reason why I badly wanna move abroad.

>You are probably the most clear headed and goal oriented 

Really? My staffs and teachers have always told me that I look confused, as if my mind is preoccupied with some other thoughts while I should be focusing on something else, for the most part, they aren't wrong tho. I constantly dissociate towards daydreaming activities so, that might be giving people the confused look of face, which I usually give. 

Sometimes it's out of my control. 

>Pick up a hobby

I was actually planning to do it after I graduate, as I thought to myself that I wouldn't have time for that kinda stuff and I must first get myself a job and move out then, look forward to picking up any hobbies, if possible.  

>But always focus on taking up just 1 arrear per semester. 

Per sem ku 1 panradhuku badhila... Time kedaikaradha poruththu yevlo arrears paper oru sem padika mudiyumo adha padichite poi yeludhaaamla... Cos time efficient plus thali vali irukaadhu (again time kedaikuradhus poruththu Naa solren) 

>You seem to have a pretty good handle with writing and conveying messages. 

Thanks. Ever since my school days, my friends and staffs have always complimented me for my essay writing and usage of words. I always think of improving my writing, by improving vocabulary and introduce new words into my writing. 

I do make grammar mistakes and spelling mistakes while writing sometimes tho. 

When it comes to speaking in English tho, I lose my shit. I can understand if somebody with a native English speaking accent or any other accent with that regard spoke to me. 

I kinda get nervous whenever I hear customer care calls in English, asking about my details. I tend to make lot of grammatical errors while talking than while writing. 

I'm always super conscious of my English tho, be it written or spoken form, for the best or for the worst. 

Anyway, thanks for your advises mate, I really appreciate it.

Thanks for the insight, I will consider this one.

Thanks for your advice bro. Neenga yedhaachum local college ah ila well known college ah? Neengalum Anna uni dhaaane?

Thanks for your insights, brother. I will keep this in mind.

Very thanks for taking time to write me a comment. I really appreciate it. I do have a hard forgiving my parents for what they have done and doing to me tho whenever I think of doing something like that, I could feel my heart racing but, will keep your points in mind. 

Sorry to bother but, I would like to know your piece of advice for this one. 

So, what would be your final opinion. Should I focus on academics while simultaneously learning to code or any other skill? Or should I just solely stick with academics until I have cleared all arrears? What would be your opinion?

What about working as a content writer or copywriter? I'm ngl, although I'm not really much of an expert in coding, I'm willing to put effort but, since you have this suggestion for me, I just wanted to ask you, how's content writing and copywriting scene? Heard ChatGPT is doing all the work and many content, copywriters are jobless? More than coding, I genuinely love writing and using words with flow. That's why I'm asking for your insight.

>don't compare yourself with others mate, also don't get jealous looking at your friends, life is not fair, it will never

I know, it's just the feeling that if my parents were supportive of me, I could have gone to the same heights as my friends. 

It's not the feeling that you didn't get. 

It's the feeling that you could have had it, which haunts me. 

>threatening your parents going to work for one or two times, but not going to work all the time. Instead, it makes them prepare for the worst. so stop doing that shit.

Adhellam palaya kadha Anna... Just oru context kaaga sonna

Very very thanks for your kind words. I hope you are in a better place now where you get to make decisions for your own life.

>Have an idea of what you want in life. Build from there. You'll realise all this school, college, marks, none of it matters after a couple of years. It'll take time to get there, but you will.

Honestly, I'm kinda confused. I was into this societal IT job hype. I'm not that good with programming, I'm yet to learn coding properly and but would show interest if I had proper sources. I suck at logical thinking that is required in programming but, I genuinely love to sit down and correction run time errors. That's why I thought of going jump on this IT bandwagon. 

But here, people have commented that I'm good with my words and I should try for jobs such as project manager, UI/UX designing, tech writing, etc. 

Yes, ever since my school days, both my friends and my staffs have always told me that I'm good with my words and essay writing. 

Now, here's my doubt, should I go for high income promises like tech jobs in IT or follow what I do best like writing?

What the fuck ra? He is 19

🫂

Account less than 1 month old cannot post in this sub.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/TamilNadu) if you have any questions or concerns.*

>Seems like you're quite tough

Idk about that one chief. I always considered myself weak. I'm the kinda guy who would bulge even if someone slightly pinched me. Like chinnadha oru physical hurt na kuda thudichiruven 

I'm kinda sensitive to words of others. Either I would suck it all up or sob about it after locking my door.

>You are a very intelligent guy. Have faith in yourself that you will succeed in life. Unfortunately intelligent guys will become outcast during college years, because no one might understand you.

At this point, idk whether you folks say this kinda stuff to console me or are you guys being real? 

Anyway, thanks for your advice and insight. I really appreciate it, brother. 

So, what would be your final opinion. Should I focus on academics while simultaneously learning to code or any other skill? Or should I just solely stick with academics until I have cleared all arrears? What would be your opinion?

Edit: Happy cake day btw

isnt free work bad?

>	heard that IT offices have mostly liberal circles. 

Sorry to break this bubble. But IT industry is the same as the real world outside. There are liberals, progressives, conservatives, extremists etc. 

liberal/progressive doesnt mean you dress well and go drinking and partying. It means you empathize with people who have problems that you don’t. You want to make their lives better. And you ll find those people. Don’t worry about it. Progressives tend to come together no matter where they are since their thought process align with each other. Maybe start volunteering at your local blue cross - it’s a great way to meet some amazing people who could potentially change your lives.

>	Apart from this project manager, content writer or copy writer, are there any other professions for writing and usage of words.

Technical writing is another job in the IT industry that needs someone to write good documentation. Business analysts jobs pay very well and needs people who are good with documentation. 

UI/UX designing jobs needs people who can understand the way people use things. 

Don’t limit yourself thinking software industry only has programming roles.

>	Really? My staffs and teachers have always told me that I look confused, as if my mind is preoccupied 

Haha… thambi. It’s classic symptoms of someone who has a brilliant mind but is in the wrong place at the wrong time. But that’s ok. You still have 50-60 years to be at the place that makes sense to you. There is no rush man. Like I said - don’t be in a hurry to become an adult. Every single adult out there is cribbing about their life. So what’s the hurry to get to that phase. Medhuva vae pogalam. But pora journey a enjoy pannu. Easier said than done - and I’m not diminishing any of your feelings. They are legit feelings - but don’t let that define your entire experience of life. 

>	I was actually planning to do it after I graduate,

Why? Your hobbies, the time you spend on them, the pleasure you get out of them are all part of life. Why would you want to delay that and deny yourself? Velai ku poi sambadhikkuradhum life dhan, mottai Maadi la poi kaathadi vidradhum life dhan. One is not more important than the other. And hobbies are a great way of connecting with people who will understand you for who you are. Give it a try. 

>	Per sem ku 1 panradhuku badhila… Time kedaikaradha poruththu yevlo arrears paper oru sem padika mudiyumo adha padichite poi yeludhaaamla

Yeah. 1 was just an arbitrary number I chose. But pick a number that wont over burden you.  Make sure you have a healthy mix of studying

Also seek therapy. Trust me it really really does help.

Nalla college lam illa bro en college topper college last bench karanum ore salery dhan ipo irukanga 3.5 lakhs mela placement varadu.

Unfortunately don’t have any idea bro. There is a writer’s strike going on in Hollywood currently and one of the things they want is the studios to stop using ChatGPT. But not sure what level of disruption that is causing in the industry itself.

But one thing you can try is to get in as a product owner and project management role. Less coding and more about breaking down and writing features.

> I know, it's just the feeling that if my parents were supportive of me, I could have gone to the same heights as my friends.

No, thats not true, whether someone support us or not, it is our own decisions and actions, we are responsible for our own decisions, try to learn how to own yourself.

Hmm, okay you might not like what I have to say. 

You're only finishing second year. You've got two years. By the time I was in my final year, I was like, fuck it. So for you, a lot of time to decide what you want. You might change your mind, your interests might change. I would say it's a good time to learn the skills you want.

Programming takes practice. Logical thinking too. I used to hear this a lot when I was in college too. You use logic in your life all the time. You did now when you wrote this instead of ending your life. So you are completely capable. If you enjoy coding, there are sources online where you can learn them. Experiment too. Find some mentors, seniors in college, ask them where you can find the best resource. Try breaking down the codes a little everyday. Understand how it all comes together. If you can test for errors, you'll find this easy. Try writing a few after a week or two. After a while, you won't need a complete breakdown since your brain is already primmed to figure it out faster. And you'll get better at it. Again, you need patience to do this.

If you want to try writing, same thing. You can practice writing professional scripts.

Most cases, it will be difficult to find time to do all this depending how flexible and lenient your college is. I would suggest a few mins is enough. You don't have to spend hours and hours losing sleep over this. 

This might sound like a bullshit advice. But this is what made me realise I didn't want to code for 8 hours a day, everyday. I enjoyed the critical thinking behind it, fascinated by the flows. But that was that. Imagining doing it for 5 days a week for years seemed like hell to me. Sucked the joy right out of it.

It will weed out what you DON'T want. And so the vision gets clearer. Don't try to pounce on everything fancy and flashy that comes along because you don't want to be left behind.

You don't have to absolutely love your job or field. But you need to be able to tolerate it. Look into options in areas you're interested in. Coding, pin point exactly what appeals to you. There are SO many options that will only confuse you by the time you finish college. Pick one role. Even if you can't land that job, you'll have the skillset to apply for something similar. 

Same goes with writing. You're good with words. It's smart to leverage what you're good with. But can you tolerate writing everyday? If so, what kind of writing you want to get into? Pick one in this too. Work on it everyday.

You can ask for advice from others. But ultimately, whatever you choose, you're the one to live the consequences.

No , You're not weak . 

Deep down you know yourself , it's just about a THIN LINE ~

Don't ever call yourself a weak , coz weak one doesn't dare so.

Gaining experience is valuable.

>UI/UX designing jobs needs people who can understand the way people use things.

Yeah just searched about it on Google. It says it requires visual communication, research, website frame, information architecture, writing, etc. 

>There are liberals, progressives, conservatives, extremists etc. liberal/progressive doesnt mean you dress well and go drinking and partying. It means you empathize with people who have problems that you don’t. You want to make their lives better.

Maybe I fell for the impression that if you speak English with your colleagues, wear expensive clothes, drink, smoke you, you are a liberal?  (Insert Gopi Sudhakar template, "subconscious classist ah naanu") 

Sorry to bother but, I would like to know your piece of advice for this one. 

So, what would be your final opinion. Should I focus on academics while simultaneously learning to master skills required for job opportunities? Or should I just solely stick with academics until I have cleared all arrears and then start learning skills? What would be your opinion?

>Haha… thambi. It’s classic symptoms of someone who has a brilliant mind but is in the wrong place at the wrong time. But that’s ok. 

Aiyayo bro 😅 Ippadi yellam sonneegana these things will only flare up my inner narcissism. Inga comments yellarume solraanga I'm being too harsh on myself

But, I always believed that I was somewhat of a narcissist. Yen manasula orama, "Namba dhaa periya aalu mathavangaluku onnum theriyaadhu" nu gira maadhri dhaa Naa yosipen

I have been working on it too. Lately I have been coming to terms that everybody is special and has something to offer, no matter how dumb or poor they might be in a particular domain. 

Maybe the self assessment about myself is wrong? Anyhow 

>Why? Your hobbies, the time you spend on them, the pleasure you get out of them are all part of life. Why would you want to delay that and deny yourself?

Okay this might sound weird but, I kinda made it as my end goal to clear as many arrears as possible within a short span of time while simultaneously not letting any new arrear pile up and developing skills required for industries. 

Idhellam pannumbodhu, yedhuku hobbies, adhellam waste of time dhaane... Innum konja naal kashta patta aparam rest of the life indha hobbies laam paakalam nu gira maadhri aana mindset la dhaa naan irundhen 

>My friends who all went on to big things after failing in college - did through their connections. 

Yeah, I used to have an insta meme page of 1k followers. There, I used to connect with my followers, a few of them happened to be IT employees, engineering graduates and MNC employees themselves.

Aparam neenga yeppadi bro well paying job pakkam poneega?

Apart from the cinema industry, what role do content writers and copywriters play in big MNCs? I heard that a lot of advertising works require some level of content/copy writing.

Project management role ku work experience and MBA certificate theva padum la?

Thanks for taking time to give out your opinion.

Thanks for believing in me even when I'm not. I mean, you don't even know but you have these humongous levels of belief in me. Thanks :)

Sorry to bother but, I would like to know your piece of advice for this one. 

So, what would be your final opinion. Should I focus on academics while simultaneously learning to code or any other skill? Or should I just solely stick with academics until I have cleared all arrears? What would be your opinion?

I would say focus on getting your degree and build some healthy hobbies. I strongly believe that a well rounded person needs to have 1-2 hobbies and a few close friends. For now just focus on these things and forget about what you will get out of it in the future. Dhoni solra madhiri the process is what matters, the results don’t.

Skill building can happen in the last year of college cos you will have fewer papers to study for. You can even take a year after college to focus on specific skills that are in demand in the job market. You can take up a start up job and learn the basics of the industry and how to work in a corporate world. Every experience counts and enhances you as a person. So don’t discount any experience

>Idhellam pannumbodhu, yedhuku hobbies, adhellam waste of time dhaane

Any moment you are alive isn’t a waste. Because you are living your life - and like I said that is the purpose of life. To live. Who is to say that having a job and working to make someone else rich the right way of living life? Every moment you make yourself happy is the best moment of your life. Hobbies are an important part of a healthy life style. They are the only things in life that will give you poor joy. No job or salary or grade will give you the kind of satisfaction a hobby will. And don’t let anyone tell you what’s a good hobby and what’s not a good hobby. Any hobby that gives you intrinsic joy is a good hobby.

Ada thambi, had 17 arrears once. Living a good life once. Touched the book evening before exam and cleared too.

Narcissism venum bro. It's not a bad thing. Most of us study for 2 days and clear exams. It's something to be proud of. If arrears bothers you just put a study plan and knock that shit off bro.

Feel free to pm. Like everyone said you are a semma clarity ulla payyan. You will do great in life. College sucks for everyone ma.

Well job lam 3.5 lakhs job dhan experience vanda nalla salery varum.job pathi avvalavu yosikadenga.incase nalla salery job venumna effort potu DSA khatukonga it kula ponumna.

Likely they are all outsourced to some agency bro. Unless it’s huge marketing firm, they won’t have in house ppl doing work.

Idk about MBA as I have seen some engineers make the switch. Maybe there is a course you can do. PMP certification for project management requires years of experience unfortunately. But you don’t need that to get a junior position.

Mmh , welcome

Focus on present academics with arrears when you're confident enough , start learning one skill which seems more important.

>You can even take a year after college to focus on specific skills that are in demand in the job market.

Ila naala pinna CV la gap year irundha companies hire pannumbodhu yedhuvum prechana varaadhu la 

And I have another doubt, let's say I did an internship where we were taught about working on Java. Naala pinna Naa yedhaachum writing related post ku apply panna indha Java internship ah CV la attach panalaama?

Adhe maadhri, I don't wanna earn lakhs pm or something like that. Will I be able to get a 30K pm job just by looking for any job that requires writing skill in any MNC or IT company?

>Any moment you are alive isn’t a waste. Because you are living your life - and like I said that is the purpose of life. To live. Who is to say that having a job and working to make someone else rich the right way of living life? Every moment you make yourself happy is the best moment of your life. Hobbies are an important part of a healthy life style. They are the only things in life that will give you poor joy. No job or salary or grade will give you the kind of satisfaction a hobby will. And don’t let anyone tell you what’s a good hobby and what’s not a good hobby. Any hobby that gives you intrinsic joy is a good hobby.

Ila bro yaarum solala... Idhellam naanave yen subconscious mind la internalize panikitu dhaa, like it's as if I have made my whole self worth revolve around my backlogs 

Adhunala dhaano enavo therla

Thanks bro, I appreciate your efforts 😅

Okay bro romba thanks. Yenaku unga kitta irundhu orey oru suggestion dhaa. Next sem lendhu verum muluka muluka studies melaye concentrate pannava 

Ila studies oda side by side coding um kaththukava? Arrears yella mudichitu skills kaththukava ila ippave start pannava?

Oh okay bro, thanks for your insights.

Oh okay thala. Thanks for the tip. Will keep this in mind. So, what would be your final opinion. Should I focus on academics while simultaneously learning to code or any other skill? Or should I just solely stick with academics until I have cleared all arrears? What would be your opinion?

Companies and generally corporate culture has moved past the boomer mindset of “gap year”.

Everyone understands that life happens and people have to take a break when they have to take a break. 

>	Naala pinna Naa yedhaachum writing related post ku apply panna indha Java internship ah CV la attach panalaama?

Pannalam. You can explain how collobarated with others, how you took initiative, how you showcased results in your Java programmer role. Those are intrinsic qualities that will translate to any corporate job.

Should be possible. But forget about that for now. Just focus on the present - like I said, now is your time to become a well rounded person with good connections and good hobbies and a degree to back you up in terms of education. It is more important to stay happy in the present than worrying too much about the future. Don’t compromise on your current happiness for a future hypothetical state of financial prosperity. 

The results will follow your process. So stay grounded in the present and work on your current happiness. You will be surprised how much you can accomplish with a A healthy mind in a happy state

Studies importance thanga time irunda coding parunga.

First option bro. Skills are important in workplace. No one will care about degree once you join workplace. It’s just a requirement to get in. So focus on academics but also do coding. Doesn’t have to be paid training. Go to leet code and do problems there.

Okay very thanks for replying to all my queries 🫂

Okay bro

Okay bro, thanks for your piece of advice.

>Go to leet code and do problems there.

Planning to take up any course on udemy? Most probably I will go for Java since I have been told that it has high demand in IT industry?

Yeah. Java is def popular. Leet code will let you learn about algos bro. Do check it out, it’s very popular for coding questions.

Sorry if I sound ignorant but, I thought leetcode was this website from where you could practice your coding? As in, let's say you wanted to practice your coding, you could find a problem specifically asking to write a program that would find whether a number is odd or even, find prime number... To build towers of hanoi... That kinda problems based website

Didn't know you could actually get coaching classes from that website

"""Shape ah iru"" ena slang da idhu
You are a great person. When I was in the same state as your friend, none of my friends gave a shit. Go meet him take him to some restaurant, eat and listen to him. May your tribe increase:)
""Shape ah iru"" na enna?
Depression is being overused and romanticised in social media. Clinical depression is something which is diagnosed by a psychiatrist . If you feel someone is not doing good , first ask them whether are they ok and need any help.
Who tf asks that straight away? Prechana irrundha depression irrkum ah? To be there for someone battling depression ngra Peru la people are forgetting eppo yenna pesuradhu nu. I appreciate your concern towards him, but this is not the correct way to ask someone. Also the way he switched from Machan to bro, I guess he is just annoyed/fed up with the prechana he is going through. PS: You might know more about him that led you to think he might be depressed. I said things from what I could get to know about him from this conversation.
People need an ear, to rant or to vent out. I would say there is nothing wrong in asking but be respectful. Also, charge podu ney :)
I hv worked with few psychiatric pts... Oru call panni palaya kathai pesunga bro knjm neram. Then probe this topic... Prachanai solved ah nu. Give him a place to vent. If he is comfortable enough to share with you , he would. Illana force pannatheenga... Let him knw u r there and ask him to reach out if he needs anything. Also plan something like meet up with a small gang. These are all you could do to help him as a friend.
Meet in person.
I would suggest to talk to him in person. Sometimes people don't tell even when they are depressed even to their close friends. Try to tell him your personal worry or worries to get him to open up. That worked on me by my psychiatrist. I didn't open up and he told me how his father didn't treat him as a doctor as he took up psychiatry rather than brain surgery like his father. I took network engineering rather than be a programmer and my father didn't support me at all. So, be patient, don't straight away ask him about his mental health. Message him daily about 'nothings' till you feel you can ask him about this. Again, it is better to do in person. I am really proud of you to care about your friend. You are an awesome friend 👍
It could be some temporary stressful situation too, but nevertheless you tried to care which is good! Also I feel people that are genuinely struggling with depression may not really talk About it at the first instance itself or insinuate that very directly(I may be generalizing but this is what I have noted personally) infact, you might not even know they are depressed until you notice a pattern of veiled instances. Anyway, good that you want to be a friend in need and so hope you are able to do something good for your friend!
Ivanunga vera memes paathutu sad ah irundhalae depression nu per vechikiranuvo. 🤡
Belated happy birthday, OP!
If your friend needs counseling, it's better he sees a qualified professional.
Lol
Look after your wellbeing first, while you support your friend. Been through too many ""friendships"" where I had to listen to hours of rambling, and got insulted and abused for setting up boundaries after I mustered up the courage. Best of luck to you and your friend.
apo close friend ey ila
Last month i forgot my friend's birthday because i was busy with something else & then he called me up few days later asking me why i never wished him. I made up the same story..konjam veetu tension le irrundhe, so wish panna mudiyale"". Maybe he just simply forgot.
Lmao
Go and meet him if possible and have a vent\rant session could help him
Bloody GenZ
Yep definitely go check on him, you never know about your friends when life gets in the way. I lost a friend too very recently.
Same question, is this a north madras thing that I’m too south madras to understand?
Ah nanga Sri Lanka la ipidi than slangla pullingovoda talk poduvom. Ithu usualah irukkura mari sagajama valu antha mari meaning bro
Stay in shape translated into Tamil 😂
Maybe it's supposed to be safe ah iru
New response just dropped
[deleted]
Thank you so much buddy for the compliments. I actually wanted to ask because in case anything happens no point in being reactive so I tried to be proactive and just had those thoughts about him. Normally, he is not that guy who will fed up as I have known him for a long time. I am the one who actually get mood swings compared to him. Well how about your state right now buddy. I hope you are doing well. Well he is actually stuck with work and accounting lectures so I don't know when we can meet together but hopefully your suggestions will work out.
Going and meeting is the perfect suggestion. However, I'll tell you this much that handling a person not in a good mental state is difficult. It's not as simple as going and meeting them and talking to them a few times. It helps definitely, but might not reverse the situation completely. I'll suggest taking him to a counselor or psychologist as well when possible. Don't forget that it's a big commitment, and it could be exhausting / overwhelming
Normal ah irunu artham bro.
safe
Ah man I should not have asked that straight away. I was dumb af as I was in workplace and to be honest I was wondering why he didn't wish me on my birthday (I knew something was definitely wrong in his life). Because he was born the day before me so he obviously knows my birthday. I wished him as usual but he replied late and that gave me a hint that something was not right with him. He even told me that he quit insurance because it was stressful and he joined a company as accounts assistant. He says all days are packed and I never seen him that panicked and depressed like that in my life. He is a positive guy. Yeah adulthood can sucks at times and I think it got into him
Mental health deterioration is a serious concern. Of late one of our college mate (same batch mate but different stream) ended his life. He was very introvert. Despite we having multiple whatsapp group no one was aware what is going on with him.
Hey thank you very much 😊
It's neither. Sri Lankan Tamil paasha paa.
vativama iru mama
Nah shape is a term we usually use among friends to indicate whether everything is fine and okay and the response to it is ""shape da machan scene illa""
I'm definitely use shape ah iru to bid someone to keep healthy 😆
Same ! When u open up to someone they start to judge you and it’s too much to take it ! Namma comfort aalam nu manasu la irkadha pesuvom avanga vandhu ipdi irndhrkalam apdi irndhrkalam nu judge pantu suthitu irpanga ! Too much.. Also i feel they start to see u in a diff way once u open up ! Nanu Adhunala dhan trying to keep most of my stuffs with myself and let out only things carefully which i wanted to say ! Hope you’re doing good :)
Ha ha, I am perfectly well now . Those things were way long back. Now doing good 😊
Thanks bro.
Oh
Actually boys when seeing girls in SL :- ponnu vadiva irukkada. Antha pettai superah vadiva irukkada. (Vadivu means beautiful) Here in SL boys refer to girls in various terms like ""size"", ""pettai"", ""pulla"", ""pottachi"" etc.
Wow never heard this before. But it does sound nice indeed.
Correct bro, That's because most people don't want to listen to you. They just want to give a solution to your problem or basically feel like they've solved your problem. It's not like they are judging us all the time. Sometimes people are impatient or inconsiderate
[deleted]
Ah niceeee

Think your name gives out why you are feeling this way. I think you are trying nofap. That is really good. PMO reduces your dopomine levels which is crtitcal for positivity and happiness

In real life people don't show the sadness...and many chaps you see on internet might be unemployed,sad because of breakup or worrying about parents that's why

TIL I'm a dick

People think normal "sadness" and clinical "depression" are the same.

Sila nerangalil sila manidhargal. It is not worth worrying about others. Be assertive than aggressive. Be tactful than pretend to be tough, acknowledge all your emotions. Just live your life to its fullest. No external validation. You living your life okthe way you deem fit. I was depressed not because I wanted to be accepted, i am pretty fine being alone. I lost my mum to cancer, the process of not knowing cope kicked me off the corner. It took a long long time to talk about my mom without without crying. That’s is when I knew I have healed.

Depression is really a strong word. But people say i have depression to look cool online and to gain attention. They are just actually sad that's it. Both are completely different

Feeling depressed is normal human emotion. Depression is the prolonged feeling of depression, these Cases of depression are usually minor, seeing a therapist would help- usually there would be a reason why the person is depressed I.e a breakup, financial issues. Clinical depression such as major depressive disorder is a more serve form of depression where therapy won’t help. And medical intervention is required such as anti depressant - in these cases the person don’t even know why they are feeling depressed to an extend it affects their daily life. Source: I have MAD, mania, MDD. I have to take pills just to feel human

Lifestyle changes. Our food, screentime and social circles have all changed for the worse. We don't get enough sleep, healthy food or even clean air. My grandmother told me when she was small they would sleep with sunset and wake up only when the rooster crowed the next day. Now I'm up all night because I'm unable to sleep.

Depression is loss of meaning. Its when you do not want to engage in things which you thought were desirable. All of your actions seems meaningless. Your family, friends, sports, hobbies, interests, they all stop working as a means to entertain you. and any hope for a propose vanishes. This state of mind then causes sadness. I think one of the primary reason for depression is lack of faith. The modern youth do not want to accept anything which is not provable through the scientific method. Most abhor religion. Some abhor philosophy too. God is simply a made up story and doesn't matter In there decision making. what is useful is more important than what is true. There lack of interest in finding out the truth has narrowed their view on life. Hence causing them to think it's all meaningless!

I forget who said it but in the postmodern postindustrial world we live in it’s almost like there’s something wrong with you if you’re not depressed and/or have anxiety. Humans were not built to live like this. That’s why they say The Matrix is a documentary (read Brave New World). Alternatively it’s like Idiocracy or something where everyone’s too stupid to be depressed lmao

The world has become so far away for all of us to connect. There is video by Kurzgesagt. They explain that even though we live in the age of easy access to people, we are not exactly connected. I don't think I'll ever be able to show my true emotions out in the world because of the fear of how I might be judged. I keep the emotional side of me to myself. This is very unhealthy but I am scared sometime. When I talk to people, I simply wear a mask of joy or happiness if i am in a unavoidable circumstance. This is becoming the norm these days. People are afraid to speak up. People are afraid to show their vulnerable emotional side. I hope I am able to overcome this and everybody else too. So, you are not the only one who feels this way.

The truth is that we now know the name for what we are experiencing. Doesn’t mean it didn’t exist before that. We can see and point our feeling. This is a good sign.

Depression is common and since we’ve progressed as a society , more people feel comfortable admitting that they are struggling. I saddened by the comments here that think they can dictate to other people what real depression means or is. Like who are we to decide when someone’s emotions are bad enough for us to give them the depression card?

Depression has now become an identity for most of the people. I used to believe that all my failures in my life was because of depression. I used to tell this to people as an excuse for not being responsible enough. When I started taking care of myself, this depression nonsense was not a differentiator in my existence. And many people like myself don't have an idea on depression. For eg, If I had a fight with my mom, I'll be sad for a day but I used to think that was depression. Depression is the new Sadness..

As a person who was actual heavily depressed and came out of it, i can confidently say the person you least expect is the most depressed. In my experience, depression is not the sudden feeling of sadness. It becomes the way you live you life. You become distant, you don’t care about anything. Even yourself. Nothing tends to matter but you still move through the motions of life. You become a walking husk of yourself and you don’t even realise it for a long time. People confuse sadness with depression. Finding out what is what is the first step.

My Take 1 Increase in drugs usage. 2 Usage of social media like ig, fb and LinkedIn makes us constantly question and worry 3 Caste and religion shitting on most peoples love life.

Most people pretend to be depressed in order to get attraction / correct girls ( like remo walking in traffic scene in anniyan) But sad thing is, this tactics works. In short they are cunning

The reason, the term depression is not properly defined in todays reality. A person , who had break-up , or lost job or lost someone becomes sad and worries a lot about the things he lost. Which makes him to be sad all the time and this is termed as depression , but actually it’s a temporary emotional downtime which would get better if they focus on the goals and shift their thinking away from it . This is what we see more now a days and that’s why the numbers are more. But there are some people who are literally stuck in a problem or situation where they feel like they can’t do anything and continues to be in the same state for a very long time and that’s when things start to go south. This is when we need assistance to come out of it. Coming to your point: surrounded by people who you feel are cunning can make you feel agitated, cause you know that they are There for their benefits and the thing you know about this but you can’t do anything and you play cool when they are around . This is common now and just try to stay away from them. Having a daily routine will always help you to focus on next thing , so you don’t have to overthink everything.

I was depressed for the most part cuz, I felt empty, beleive it or not, having something to be depressed about is much better than having nothing to be depressed about.

I think this is a phenomenon prevalent and rising all over the world. Changing times are giving rise to changing cultures (economic and social) and the pressures to adapt to them. It is a mixture of latent depression coming to light (through social media) and the newer developments of it due to these pressures which also can be attributed to the value comparisons that ensue of one's own life to others in terms of fulfillment. The addictive characteristic intrinsic in the design of social media leads to escapism and further reinforces the value comparison, both of which don't help us work on our behavioral issues. It is not to say that these issues didn't exist before social media, but as mentioned earlier, it is coming to light and is even being exacerbated through it. These factors are some of which are leading to a rise in declining mental health. Some healthier alternatives for helping improve our mental health: 1. Stop following the pages that lower our self-worth. Limited and self-monitored social media usage and phone usage in general will help stabilize dopamine levels. 2. Quit Porn. Masturbation is healthy when it's managed properly, stick to your imagination and keep it to at most once every two weeks (personal opinion). 3. Actively working on our mental health through talk-therapy with a mental health professional, medication (if necessary, prescribed by a professional), meditation, self-reflection to truly address and work on recurring thought/behavior patterns that are detrimental to our psychological well-being (again this can be approached more effectively by openly speaking with a mental health professional who practices cognitive behavioral therapy). 4. Actively participating in creating and fostering healthy and supportive friendships, relationships, and communities, while cutting and staying away from relationships that contribute to further deterioration of our mental health. 5. Learning life-skills like cooking, doing laundry, and cleaning. Not only are they practical in use, but they also help with confidence in ourselves to be independent. 6. Getting into hobbies we truly want to explore. 7. Getting some good and regular exercise (even just walking outside for a while helps a lot, without using our phones). 8. Maintaining good hygiene, grooming ourselves (for our own satisfaction rather than for external validation). 9. Reading (fiction and non-fiction, reading self-help books is fine, but they become redundant and personally I think it's more effective for the brain to read fiction/non-fiction as they engage the creative parts of the brain). Most important of all: 10. Being kind to ourselves, self-parenting is essential in present times and a privilege our past was not educated about. There is no benefit in giving ourselves a hard time by comparing our unique journey with others. There is no need to pressure ourselves to do all these things very quickly. To take it all a step at a time (but religiously commit to it) is to live a full life. If you're here after reading through all that, thank you and I'm sorry for the wall of text, but I hope it helps, have a good one. We're all journeying together and no one is alone.

Life is not all sunshine and rainbows. You need to stop imagining one such life and face what is put in front of you. Depression is a conflict between what life should be and what life is.

Dude, chill, this is reddit where people wants to express their darker half feelings, rant, reduce burden by pouring out. And the same people use the other social media to show how chill I am. Reddit and other social media are not the same because of their identity is anonymous. Feel to share your inner feelings.

It’s better understood and openly talked about. I don’t think it is “becoming common”

Saying u r in depression has become a fashion statement nowadays. They don't even know what clinical depression means

I feel triggered whenever I read the news or someone sends me something related to caste because suddenly that's all I see. I said this to a friend and she called me a Savarna but I'm not a Savarna. I don't even know what that means. I've grown up in an urban environment without knowing what my caste was, and now I've grown up and found out, done research, turns out my ancestors were all what we would call Dalit who got pushed over to a different category. I feel helpless when someone blames me or my ancestors for existing, or even talks bad of my gods, I can't do anything can I. This adds to my anxiety. A friend in AP sent me reading on Periyar last night when I was about to sleep, I couldn't sleep after I just checked the name of the book, because, overthinking. It's extremely sad. I know my family did all they can to help everyone they could, like I try to do. It's such a complex situation.

People out there throwing out the terms 'Depression' 'Anxiety' like confetti to such a level that it has become extremely cliché.

Some people get depressed with low likes for their SM posts.

You can avoid sadness turning into something else. Get busy, learn something new, learn a language,trek (if you don't have money to travel), etc.

[deleted]

What we eat + childhood experiences / development. These play a good chunk on how we feel to be honest. Starts from the beginning.

I told myself I don't have depression when I first visited a psychiatrist (my parents tricked me into meeting one) and he went on to give some medicines (antidepressants and sleeping pills) and I was fine, till I decided not to take them. Then we stopped going at one point but I couldn't quite say whether I was depressed, or sad or just lonely. A noticeable change was when I started having suicidal thoughts, something which I've had at times as a child but became frequent by the time I was done with college. Adding fuel to the fire was the death of my friend, which on one hand made me aware that I was very much susceptible to killing myself, but later on I kinda realised that my friend shouldn't have done that. His cause of death to me was due to his 18 arrears he had, whereas a year after he died, I was in the process of clearing my 22 arrears via Online exams, which I passed

Ge off your phone.. and get used to not having any form ofninstant gratification.. once that happens, you'll see through all this crap around you..

we study what are told to most of the times we never do the job we are tempted or passionate of we follow some social structure that never existed we all wanna play it safe some people call to take risk at office space that is not your risk at all but to tame yourself to obey them end of the day post 40's we live a life with EMI and health insurance. it all started at our early age where we failed to communicate well bcz our parents are not aware of things and insecure,. very very few children or 20's grown human break this loop very few make friends that are worthy enough to reach passion rather making comparative LPA to office friends or dumb relatives.

[deleted]

I feel depression is a very word. People being in the state of sadness say themselves that they are depressed. Being sad is okay but feeling sad deliberately is a wrong state of mind. I firmly believe that people can come out of this dark phase of their life. If you’re genuinely depressed then please seek mental counselling.

I got really good at hiding how i really feel in real life because i don’t want to lose out on opportunities and friendships due to my mental issues. Social Media is a place where i can mostly be myself so i don’t have to pretend. I’m sure this is the case for many other people as well.

Comparison is the destruction of joy, in other words depression. Find your geek and embrace it, that will become joy of your life by lending a hand to those in need. Have a great day.

It was always there, people have started to get more aware about it now.

I guess one cause could be that, we are away from nature so much.. If you take a walk in the park filled with greenery, just 20 minutes of it,. I guess it will help.. For me, it has worked.. just a walk in park.. Sometimes even doing few exercises or trying some yogasanas has helped me.. in the sense that i feel something different in a positive way.. The time i spend with phone, checking LinkedIn filled with accomplishments from others, checking WhatsApp statuses about others, checking YouTube videos mindlessly all above factors bring me down...

Depression is not something which majority of the people think how it will be. You will never know what people going through unless otherwise they share it completely. And in most case, if they come to the level of sharing, they “

Sogama irukradhellam clinical depression illa da parama. People should understand this.

Bro world has become more competitive.. people trying to live up to certain standards by comparing themselves with other people and get depressed thinking they're not good career/life/family wise. And IMO people who have depression without any reason(breakup/family/career) is the most dangerous depression. That's the clinical depression that occurs just internally by body changes/hormones etc. No extrenal reasons whatsoever. They just feel empty and fight a lot of internal demons. People should reach out to a Therapist if they have something like that. Kudos to everyone that has fought depression and coming out the other end!! My heart goes out to everyone undergoing this Battle

Comparison is the thief of all joy. We live in a world where we are constantly comparing ourselves to others because of social media, news, media etc. Everyone has insecurities on the inside but we feel the urge to showcase our 'best' life in public Try and focus on yourself and what you need to do, it's much more healthy for your mind.

Over stimulation

[deleted]

Yeah PMO induced the idea of depression in my mind. I was a person who was unaware of what it feels to be depressed few years before. Even now I don't know whether I'm truly depressed, i just feel bad for all those wrong decisions which I took lead me to toda who I'm and working to reverse it.

What is PMO? Google says Project Management Office. I don't think you meant that. Elaborate please.

Not necessarily, I'm in constant depression without any major scenarios like the one you mentioned. With late night overthinking and disoriented sleep, bad dreams, etc

You don’t have to be any of those things to be depressed. You can have everything in the fucking world and still be depressed, perhaps more so - you see depression higher in developed countries.

could you pls stop generalizing? I have my own best freind..she has 15LPA just hit her 30's., no debts.. she is deppressed like anything., eventho got an busy schedule and physically healthy life with partner. this is some un explainable scenario which could not be sterotyped.

Hi dick, I’m dad

( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)

Hi , I’m Rick!

This ! ... It's okay to be sad, eventually you will get over it ... As long as you don't drown your sorrows with liqour and drugs, then that would turn into an endless vicious cycle .... But clinical depression is not a phase and unfortunately people confuse the two

I'm sorry for your loss. It's good you have overcome it . Life is unfair sometimes, but it is what it is. I don't know philosophy... So this what I could say. You are a strong person.

This needed to be said.

I just want you to know that you are going to be fine. It's not a lot but I am proud of you.

Feeling depressed is not normal.. i think you are confusing it with sadness.. On the other hand if someone considers high fever as normal human thing then your logic would be applicable.

I have MDD also.. and i couldn't agree more with you

Don't fall for that trash talk by the oldies.. these things did exist in their days too.. they didn't know what it was coz of lack of information or they just dismissed it

This is so much truth for me to know.

Hehe cool

Right

There is a demon at every level More you level up, you should slide/dodge than fight

This leads to me giving off a sad ish vibe on most days.

Me. Whenever I make a reel and it doesn't get the traction my older reels got I hate myself

Bro it's worth your lifetime living for and by the side of your parents. It's a blessing. Don't ever let yourself down and especially your mom down in any situation. I believe in God. And it's them. Our parents are our Gods. Not only for creating us, their sacrifice and efforts for us to live a better life is immeasurable , priceless .

You are absolutely right.

:-/ factu factu factu

Correct light ? Enlighten me please

>The time i spend with phone, checking LinkedIn filled with accomplishments from others, checking WhatsApp statuses about others, checking YouTube videos mindlessly This has helped you, seriously ?

Bruh, i'm just 22 and i'm all healthy and in ideal BMI. And i'm not an idiot to not know i have diabetes, it's the lack of motivation and repeated failures lead me here. I'm getting over this for real.

Feel you bro . .. been there ..once you accept that you have a problem . You will work it out .. will take sometime .. but you will get there

Porn Masturbation & Orgasm

yeah also they might have other problems...

In past good food, shelter, having a small family and a niche was heaven. These days, they are nothing.

I just said about the common problems..did I deny there aren't other problems edit:typo

Congratulations.

Thank you! Don’t worry naamalam tsunamileh swimadipom, seeking treatment feeling great 😇

No no. She helped me through my depression. Made sure I took medicines, took me to therapy. She just told me this when I asked why are we getting all this when they didn't go through it. My family has been super supportive, and have regular meetings with my therapist for progress too.

I mean how we don't grow or eat healthy anymore. If I was back home, I'd eat from plants in our balcony garden, or from a neighborhood mill, get cow milk from an aunty who lives down the road and so on. I'm on my phone, anxious and unable to sleep at night, I try keeping my phone away and I'm anxious about being unable at work or a commitment. This is a lifestyle change.

Smartphones well, yes ofcourse

Agreed! Learning this.

[deleted]

Yeah, I'm not a transformed person, but occasionally when I walked in the park or occasionally when I did little bit of exercise, something different i felt. Not that I push myself to park or exercise..

In that case i must say... Dude count your lucky stars daily.. not everyone has such a supportive family especially in such matters

True that about eating healthy.. and yes putting away the phone sometimes does just lead to feeling even more worse

Buddy even I'm doing CA lol

Yeah! I'm aware. My relatives have been nice. This started with the first time I got pimples and freaked out, my family was like we got them, they will fall off. Same with mental health, they've seen relatives go through horrible spaces without therapy or medicines, that's why they're more open to change. Also, on TV and news so many stories of kids committing suicide and so on. It scares them because they love my sister and me so much.

Yeahh! Exactly. We don't have the social circles they have too. Their best friends were their cousins, I don't even live in the same place as my cousins (who are all small so won't understand what I'm saying).

Agreed

"Oru manushan hobbies ellam edukkaradhu depression-a theerkkaadhu. Naanum ellam seynjen—oduradhu, weightlifting, crocheting, ezhudhuradhu. Medicine kooda sila samayam help pannala. 

Depression en vaazhkaiyoda oru paagam-nu othukitten, konjam bad days vandha enjoy pannuren, adhu konjam dhaan. Mukkiyam, manasa ippove anchor pannuradhu. Kadandha kaalam pathi ninaikkuradhu illa future pathi kavalai padradhu help pannadhu. Ippo irukkura nimisham-la irukkanum, therapy-oda steady-a irukkanum.

Gym pona theerum-nu sollura vera aalunga (not you) upset pannuraanga—like please vaaya moodu. Namma ellam namma best try pannurom."
"20 varushama depression (M30), idhu deep-a connect aagudhu. Depression treat pannuradhu konjam pannuradhu-nu exercise, nalla sappadu, hobbies, friends & family-oda nalla bond, mindfulness, journal ezhudhuradhu, nature-la irukkaradhu seynjen. Therapy mattum seyyala, kaasu illa. En depressive thoughts logic illadhadhu, ennodadhu illa-nu puriyudhu. Stop pannanumnu aasa, but brain work pannala. Control-la irukkura konjam time temporary dhaan. Vaazha bayam, aana end pannuradhu thairiyam illa. Sila naal, weeks, maasam kooda, maranam pathi ninaikkuradhu dhaan relief. Aana appo bed-la irundhu move pannala."
"Ellarukum irukkura kaar iruttu kuzhi—sila aalunga adha nalla wall pannirukkanga, adhu dhaan."
"Medicine pathi thalaya wall-la kotturadhu, supplements, diet, oru med to vera med cycle pannuradhu waste. No med full-a work pannadhu. Bad days irukkum. Med enna bed-la irundhu ezhuppichu, brain work pannichu, aana depression irukku. Adha othukittadhu somehow easy aachu."
"Idhu nijam! Negative self-talk, shame, repeat ninaivugal—ellam depression symptoms. Depression-a pesi theerkka mudiyadhu. Source sadness-la irundhu varudhu. Vera manushana, vera personality, brain chemistry-oda irukkura maadhiri. Just sad-a irukkura relief, guilt, mad, sad pathi sad-a irancora irukkuradhu. Sad-a irukkanumnu permission kuduthadhu help pannudhu. Emotions, thoughts experience dhaan, pannuradhu illa. 

Shaking pathi sonnadhu TRE maadhiri! Tension and Trauma Releasing Exercise. Therapist-oda try pannapo, body 15-20 min shake pannuchu, trauma-la irundhu nervous energy release pannuchu."
"Oh god, neenga ennoda maadhiri 💔

Naan thappu pannuren-nu nenachen, hard try pannanum-nu. 2 labs-la velai, 3 volunteer velai, martial arts, friends, therapy—ellam pannuren. 

Lazy-nu, try pannala-nu nambanumnu nenachen, coz full effort panniyum recovery time dhaan-nu puriyudhu, wait pannuradhu unbearable pain. Cliché depression help pannadhu, coz naan traumatised. First time vaazhkaila safe-a irukken. Body surviving-la super, aana living-la good illa. Constant fight or flight mode, next big bad thing-uku ready-a irukkanum. Traumatised.

Sad thoughts, rumination, negative self-talk average person kooda illa, aana sad-a feel pannuren. Therapy long-term feelings-a challenge pannuradhu good illa.

Jelly-la swim pannura maadhiri, weights body-la katti irukkura maadhiri feel. 3am-la velai pannitu diarrhea cleanup pannura maadhiri tired, ugh idhu venda, romba tired, edhuvum pannanumna feel. Ellam energy suck pannudhu.

CBT, behaviour change, diet, sleep, exercise—edhuvum maathala."
"Naan happy aavuradhu illa-nu purinjiten. Woodworking, fishing, hiking, velai pannum podhu manasu bad things-la irundhu distract aagudhu."
"30 varusham depression. Ellam try pannitu depression kuzhila vizhunden. Trauma therapy, EMDR try panninen, aana depressive episodes vandhuchu. Finally med try panninen, adhu work pannudhu, kuzhila vizhala. Childhood trauma, abuse brain-a mess pannudhu. Brain injury maadhiri. Never give up! 40 vayasula (trauma birth-la irundhu), normal-a, happy-a feel pannuren. Stress irundhaalum happy."
"Trauma healing enna pannureenga?"
"Sorry, depression vida anxiety jaasthi, aana same… invasive. Sirichu enjoy pannanumnu ninaikkuren, aana anxiety pathi kavalai, then anxious 😭 end illa."
"Ellarukum seekram peace kedaikkum-nu namburen."
"Depression 20 varusham (38 vayasu, childhood-la start). Right things pannuren, aana daily low-key depressed. Car hit pannidumnu aasa. Vaazhkai, game-a hate pannuren, edhuvum pannamudiyadhu. Velai, gym, nalla sappadu, processed foods, desserts cut panniruken, sleep schedule—irundhaalum depression irukku.

Point enna-nu, neenga solluradhu puriyudhu. Right things panniyum enough illa."
"Depression enna pull pannudhu, no matter what I do. Thoughts, brain chemistry vida jaasthi, en paagam-a irukku. Kaar emptiness maadhiri describe pannuren.

Secular Buddhism pathi paakkuren, answers irukkuma-nu.

Meds work pannuradhu glad."
"Good and bad ellam naan dhaan-nu purinjikittadhu help pannudhu. Love-a kaatturadhu en poruppu. Easy illa, aana space kuduthu, great things pannavendam, something good pannuren."
"TMS panninen last year. Miracle maadhiri. 50 years symptoms overnight pogudhu. Emotions handle pannuradhu kathukitten. 60 vayasu, Tortured Poets-la azhuthen, lyrics en ninaivugaloda close.

Not recommending, doctor decide pannanum. En experience share pannuren.

50 years depression, two attempts. CPTSD 40 years, anxiety 20s-la start. 6 weeks TMS worth it. Meds, therapy, meetings, mindfulness vaazhkai save pannudhu. Keep going. Hope sometimes kanom, Skyrim-la corpses loot pannura maadhiri."
"Depression-a pet maadhiri paathukuren, pogadikka mudiyadhu. Always irukkum. Accomplish pannalanna calm pannuren. Clean pannalanna okay, lunch sappitten. Velai hard panniruken, rest deserve pannuren. Peace deserve pannuren, others selfish-nu sonnaalum, naan dhaan enakku help pannuren."
"Anxiety waves maadhiri nap pannum podhu shiver pannudhu. Ippo nap pannamudiyadhu, nervous system overwhelmed. Trauma dhaan source."
"36 vayasu, 12 vayasula depression diagnose aachu. First time vaazhkaila improve aagudhu. Therapy, TMS panniruken, nothing worked. Exercise, sun, depression pathi pesiruken, long run-la nothing. Quiet aana depression varudhu. Recent-a ADHD diagnose aachu, anxiety almost pogudhu."
"Last 3 sentences pathi yaarum sollala?"
"Hobbies pannuradhu nalla irukku, aana belong pannura feel varadhu.

Belong pannuradhu-nu big machine-la oru small cog-nu purinjikittadhu. Grand design-la chinnapaagam. Learn and grow pannuradhu dhaan point.

Poem share pannuren:

Oru last paathai irundha

En destination-uku pogura oru last paathai

En vaazhkaiyoda rest-uku kaattura paathai

Comfort, familiarity paathai choose pannuven

Jaasthi green, jaasthi blue paathai

Vivid poo, periya maram irukkura paathai

And I’d sit

Naan evlo small-nu ninaippen

En vaazhkai evlo small-nu

Ellam avoid pannamudiyadhu, time-la small blip

Vaazhkai book illa

No table of contents

No pages, chapters, paragraphs

Each letter of each word of each sentence maadhiri

Never great like Einstein or Van Gogh

Aana namma vaazhkai mukkiyam. Same recycled air breathe pannirukkom

Same moon, same jokes sirichirukkom

Fiercely love pannirukkom, deeply hurt pannirukkom like everyone

Namma dust aana pinnum

Cycle continue pannum."
"Trauma healing enna pannureenga, eppadi pannureenga?"
"Trauma healing mukkiyam, adhu work pannudhu. Feel pannuren."
"Borderline irukku, feel pannuren. Konjam time distract pannuren, aana alone-a irundha square one."
"Depression en personality paagam-nu othukitten, edhuvum pannamudiyadhu."
"Car hit pannidumnu aasa, maranathuku reason kedaikkum."
"8 varusham depression diagnose. 2 meds-la irundhaalum, yearly 1 or 2 strong depressive episodes, 1 month last pannudhu.

Depressed aalunga conscious-a vaazhkai originally depressing-nu paakkuren, meds less conscious-a pannudhu—happy.

Unintelligent, poor aalunga happy-a irukkanga, daily sappadu afford pannuravanga baby maadhiri thoonguranga, anxious illa. Naan financially stable, loving family, friends irundhaalum."
"Vaaya moodu, ayyo."
"Idhu Pfizer post, comments-um."
"Healthy aalu depressed aal-a paakkum podhu, normal human condition maadhiri thappu pannirukkom-nu blame pannuranga. Gym, vera maadhiri ninaikkunu solluranga. Millions sedentary, edhuvum pannama happy-a irukkanga. Schizophrenia maadhiri, aana normal-a disguise aagudhu, thappu mindset-nu.

Dr K solluraan, depression as mood disorder episodic, varum pogum. Chronic, constant depression trauma-related. C-PTSD pathi paaru, depression trauma symptom-nu jaasthi aalunga paakkuranga."
"Always yourself-oda fight pannura maadhiri. Hobbies help pannudhu, aana daily tough."
"Idhu vera aalunga pannuradhu puriyala. Friends ambitious, talented-nu solluvanga, motivation eppadi-nu keppanga, answer illa. Time pass pannuradhu, sad feel pannama irukkuradhu-nu pannuren. Depressed-nu doubt pannuren, coz energy irundha pannuvennu nenachen. Pandemic-la bad aachu, ippo family reasons-ala pause-la bad again."
"20 varusham depressed, underlying issues theerkkalaiya?"
"Therapy pona, experiences parents or police-ku report aagum. Enna experience pannuren-nu solla mudiyadhu, hurt pannum. Trapped feel pannuren, care pannura, nalla advice tharavaru venum. Same feel pannuren, 15 vayasu. Future bayam, vaazhkai like this venda."
"[removed]"
"Amen brother. Sila naal iruttoda nadakkuren."
"[deleted]"
"Woodworking azhagu hobby."
"Purple unicorn, super job! 🌸 Complex trauma maadhiri irukku, cPTSD irukkuma? Enna med help pannudhu?"
"Medicine name sollunga, therapist-ta ketkuren."
"Name theriyadhu, trauma release-nu YouTube solludhu.

Safety visualize pannuradhu nervous system-ku cue-a work pannudhu. Body scan/awareness, trauma body-la stored. Sudden shaking sessions varudhu. YouTube professional ancient survival energy release-nu solluraan. Adha pannuren."
"Azhaga sollirukkeenga. Thanks for sharing."
"Constant thought belong pannala-nu, idhu nalla perspective change. Azhagu poem, thank you."
"Depression dhaan underlying issue, gym pona theerum-nu illa. Hobbies brain chemistry off-a irundha help pannadhu.

Med always help pannadhu. No theerppu illa, aana nalla direction-la strong step, flesh wound-uku bandaid maadhiri."
"Sorry, situation tough. Aalunga protect pannanumnu feel pannuradhu, hurt express pannamudiyadhu rough.

New living situation try pannuradhu possible-a?"
"[deleted]"
"Idhu enna depress pannudhu. Smoke pannuren lazy-a irukkuradhu okay-nu, then self-hate, pity overwhelm pannudhu."
"9 varusham daily smoker. Anxiety increase aachu. 1.5-2 years break eduthen. Ippo hit or miss. Same strain, sila samayam rumination, sila samayam relax."
"Idhu feel pannuren."
"Projects something to nothing aaguradhu nalla feel, aana always super busy-a irukkuradhu tough, manasu occupied-a irukkum. Real theerppu illa, aana help pannudhu."
"Complex PTSD irukku, shaking videos post pannunga.

Therapy-la shaking experience panniruken, varusham-a traumatic pain body-la irundhu pochu maadhiri relief."
"Visualisation nalla irukku, body scan-oda pannureengala? YouTube video names sollunga."
"Thank you!

Vaazhkai pathi doubt pannuren, why idhu-nu. Search pannuren, malice, guilt, betrayal illadha sense pannuradhu soul journey choose pannudhu learn, grow pannuradhu. Hard dhaan, edhuvum easy illa.

Reincarnation irundha, vaazhkai whispers of experience. Conscience, intuition maybe. Favorite affirmation “yaarum thappu pannala, just nadandhadhu”."
"Valuable advice “you exist, so you belong”. Brain-la switch flip aachu. Giant hamster wheel vaazhkai-a sense pannuradhu help pannirukken."
"Sticky paaru."

[removed]
Naan happy-a irukka try pannadha vittutu, consistent-a irukka try panninen. Adhu ellathayum maathiduchu.
Naan oru naal oru naal-a vaazhndhen. Future-la edhuvum aspire pannadha niruthitten. Life goals-a drop pannitu, indha moment-la irukka try panninen. First period-la naan romba thoonginen. Oru stage-la, night thavira thoongura need illama pochu. Appo naan en job-a paathen, job change panninen. Adhu konjam better-a feel pannina maari irundhuchu. Healthy-a eat pannina maari panninen. Adhukku apparam en hobbies again fun-a feel aachu. Romba time eduthukumma maari irundhuchu, aana depression-oda irundha one and half year-a vittu veliya vandhadhu, suddenly body-la konjam happiness feel aachu. Oru dark dream-lendhu wake aanadhu maari irundhuchu, nightmare illa. Light on aana maari irundhuchu. Ellam bright-a therinjudhu. Naan romba smile panninen, adhukku return-la adhigama smiles kedaichudhu. Strangers-oda again chat panninen. Naan dark-lendhu light-ku vandhuten. Funny thing enna-na, naan eppadi depressed aanen-nu innum theriyala.
En situation depressed-a irundhuchu, so naan situation-a change panninen.
Financially stable aaguradhu.
Phone-a completely off pannitu, long walks panninen.
Depression-a never fully defeat pannidalaam-nu accept pannadhu. Idhu contradictory maari irukkum, aana dark periods-la, "nee just sick, innum better feel pannuva"-nu remind pannikuradhu romba helpful-a irundhuchu.
Welp naan romba long reply type panninen, aana Reddit delete panniduchu. Fuck you Reddit.
Exercise, adhigama exercise. Outdoors-la adhigama time spend pannuradhu.
Shape-la varadhu, substance abuse-a vittu viduradhu (ellaathayum totally abstain pannala, abuse pannadhadha solluren), toxic people/relationships-a en life-lendhu remove pannadhu, including en wife of 15 years, she was the root cause of most of my depression, enga relationship textbook definition of trauma bond, finally naan enakkaga vaazha aarambichen.
Decent people-a find pannu.
Action edukkuradhu, even if bad-a feel pannalum. Need aana cry pannikitte pannuradhu.
Depression-a defeat pannala, manage pannuradhu. Medication, therapy, right job, right people around, life-la fulfillment find pannuradhu-nu edhuvum combo-la pannalaam.
Bupropion.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) therapy.
Various things helped me overcome my depression that lasted several years, aana most important thing enna-na, naan better aaga mudiyum-nu realize pannadhu, appuram edha pannalum better aaguradhu-nu decide pannadhu. Meditation - idhu practice venum, first frustrating-a irukkum, keep at it, moments of peace kedaikkum. Depression-oda suffocation-lendhu few minutes break sometimes lifesaving-a irukkum. En feelings-a write pannuradhu, why feel pannuren-nu figure pannuradhu, idhu enna pathi learn pannadhu, stressors-a identify pannadhu, mental health improve pannuradhu-kku help pannidhu. Exercise - idhu easy, almost daily pannalaam, immediately help pannum. Depressed-a irundha, idhu worse-a pannadhu. Talking to people - idhu sometimes most helpful, aana sometimes backfire pannum. People unpredictable, aana getting out there help pannum. Nutrition and sleep - idhu most people think pannuradha vida adhigama pannum. Healthy diet pannuradhu, 8 hours sleep (9-10 if female) try pannuradhu. Creative outlet find pannuradhu - drawing, writing, video games, shower-la singing, edhavadhu thoughts-a head-lendhu konjam veliya edukka. Working - job vachukuradhu, focus pannuradhu distract pannum, obviously money pannum. Money happiness vangadhu, aana jet ski vangum (idhu reference, jet skis depression cure pannadhu-nu theriyum, aana help pannum). Adventures poga - local park-la walk pannuradhu kooda help pannum. Fresh air breathe pannuradhu, nature enjoy pannuradhu, body move pannuradhu, realize pannuradhu we’re small, just to live. Professional help seek pannuradhu - under 18 or afford pannala-na tough, aana therapy really help pannum. Good therapist find pannuradhu, first one work pannalana give up pannadha, good match-a find pannina life change pannum.
Nee force pannikitte things pannanum.
Adequate sleep, daily 1-2 hours yoga, healthy diet, toxic people-a get rid pannuradhu, junk, sugar stop pannuradhu, future pathi worry pannadha, present-la irukkuradhu, present dhaan real, tangible, control pannalaam. Positive, emotionally healthy people-oda time spend pannuradhu, news adhigama paakadha, pets-oda time spend pannuradhu, social media-la less time spend pannuradhu.
Several things: Medication, enough sleep, working world-lendhu retire pannuradhu, eating right (ish), water kudikkuradhu, toxic friends and family-a cut off pannuradhu, en dogs, alcohol avoid pannuradhu, therapy of course.
Abusive husband-a vittu, innum andha maari person enna use pannadha maari pannuradhu.
Talking pathi, underlying issues-a really deal pannuradhu. Appuram meds, exercise, more therapy, compassionate relationship vachukuradhu.
Escitalopram.
Depression-a really defeat pannidalaam-nu sure illa, aana psychedelic journey with guide panninen, adhu en life-a change panniduchu.
SOBRIETY. Thousand times. Alcohol illa, especially weed illa. 472 days sober-kku grateful. Edit: More money pannuradhu, idhu sobriety-nala vandhadhu.
Bad relationships-la illadha irukkuradhu.
Five times depression-oda battle panninen. Exercise pannuradhu, house-lendhu veliya poradhukku force pannikuradhu, fitness buddy vachukuradhu, sleep, seafood, comedy shows help pannum. Psychiatrist, psychologist paakuradhu helpful.
Yoga, meditation, exercise pannuradhu. Reading pannuradhu. Life-la positive things-la focus pannuradhu. Aana time edukkum.
Ketamine infusions.
Not recommending, aana en buddy enna one and half month free-a vachukittan. Everything paid for. We went out, full time together. Mushrooms, ket pannom. Just talked. Spiraling start aana, he helped me. After trip (literally and figuratively) plans set pannom, spiraling thoughts-a handle pannuradhu pathi. 3 years later, naan better-a irukken, avan always en family.
Extremely long walks... 10k-lendhu start panninen, 20k-ku progress panninen. Single agenda-oda obsessed aagiten.
Depression and substance abuse tightly linked-a irundhuchu. Getting sober most important. Weed, ketamine self-medicate panninen, moment-la help pannalum, long-term worse pannidhu. Clean aana apparam, unhealthy relationships-lendhu move panninen, new healthy ones form panninen, sleep, diet, exercise healthy place-ku vandhuchu, psychiatrist-oda meds right panninen, without other substances interference. 12-step recovery, individual therapy helpful structure provide pannidhu. Today en depression fully remission-la irukku.
Coping, honesty, reflection, integrity, surrender, acceptance, growth. Depression really defeated-a? Theriyala, aana life-la genuinely grateful-a irukkuradhu significantly help pannum.
Money lol. Money can’t buy happiness-nu solluravanga 40 years destitute-a irundhu, ready to blow their brains out illa. En chronic depression chemical imbalances-oda sambhandham illa, HCOL area-la afford pannama irundhadhu. Three years depression free. New job stressful, aana money keeps rolling in, paycheck to paycheck vaazhuradha vida less stressful.
Therapy, music, volunteering (when I could handle it), friends-oda talk pannuradhu, running, gardening.
Anti depressants start panninen. Depression-a defeat pannala, aana therapy learnings-a leverage pannuradhu-kku space create pannidhu. Ellathayum medicate pannida mudiyadhu.
Depression defeated-a, temporary dhaan. Healthy new habits build pannanum to keep it at bay. Daily how you feel-nu attention pannanum. Depression slowly varum, adha recognize pannuradhu, chase away pannuradhu learn pannanum. Lifelong battle. Enakku antidepressants, therapist. Both initially hard work, aana worth it.
Time and en loss-oda coming to grips.
Hormonal birth control pills-lendhu get off pannuradhu.
Better sleep, veliya poga opportunities find pannuradhu, new hobby find pannuradhu, more sun, drinking stop pannuradhu, better eating - enakku keto diet.
Psychedelic mushrooms. Seriously.
Ketamine and Wellbutrin. Indha drugs-kku munnadi, constant blah existentialism feel pannuradhu eppadi-nu theriyala. Ketamine bigger picture paakuradhu-kku help pannidhu. Wellbutrin energy, motivation feel pannidhu. Drinking stop panninen. Yourself-a deal pannuradhu, problems-a escape pannama irukkuradhu help pannum. Voices in head-a listen pannavendam, society condition pannidhu, fat person-a judge pannuradhu maari. Speak back pannuradhu, first stupid-a feel pannum, aana muscle build pannanum. Self-love, not putting myself down pannuradhu work pannuren. Depression again varum-nu theriyum, aana less painful, deal pannuradhu learn panniten.
Cognitive behavioral therapy, meditation, mindfulness, self-reflection. Naan yaar, enna venum, enna let go pannanum-nu learn pannuradhu. Most difficult step, loving myself. Religious illa, aana oru quote stuck with me - “God told me to love my enemy. So I obeyed, and loved myself.”
TMS - Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation. Life saver. 2 sets of 36 treatments panninen. Commitment, aana worth it. Drive pannalaam. New neurons grow pannum. Brainway system use panninen.
People.
Good paying job pannuradhu.
Long walk outside daily pannuradhu really helped.
Depression-a defeat pannala, learn to live with it.
Time.
Depression-a defeat pannadhu-nu sollala, aana survival-kku positive self talk. Brain betray pannumpo ellam, consciously, deliberately naan shithouse illa, value, worth irukku, mistakes pannuradhu okay, world ending illa-nu remind pannikuren.
Balanced diet, weight lose pannuradhu. Depression-oda struggle panninen, surgery pannitu lifestyle changes panninen. Occasional random sadness varum, aana constant depression-la vaazhala.
Don’t judge me, aana THC. Edible or flower.
Psychedelics, not for everyone, aana enakku work pannidhu, others-kku better work pannidhu. Research pannuradhu, questions-kku answer pannuren.
Depressed-a irukka vittutu, force pannama irundhadhu. Pressure illama small tasks pannuradhu easier-a irundhuchu.
En entire life long depression-a transform panninen, therapist advice-a finally ketten. “Depression is a choice” nu therapist sonnadhu, avanai hate panninen. Aana time poga, adhu 100% true-nu realize panninen. CBT triangle thoughts, feelings, behaviors pathi pesudhu. Thoughts, feelings control pannida mudiyadhu (most part), aana behaviors control pannalaam. Depressed feel pannuradhu, think pannuradhu help pannala, aana opposite action pannalaam, depressed-a irukkumpo venum-nu pannuradha opposite-a pannuradhu. Depression-oda, motivation follows action, not the other way around. Clean pannala-nu sollumpo, “feel better aana apparam clean pannuren” nu solluradhu, “abs vandha apparam gym poren” nu sollura maari. Depression-a beat pannuradhu-kku, opposite-a pannanum. Truly life changing.
Depression-a defeat pannala, gravity maari. Always come down eventually. Cycle of depression top-la irukkura maari pannidhu, down varumpo quick-a back up pannuren. Ignore pannuradhu, others solluradhu, do pannuradhu useful, actionable illana waste. Social media-lendhu veliya varadhu, people disappear, lonely aana okay, real relationships focus pannuradhu. 1-3 months lock in, gym, self-help books, walks, outside poga. Most important: Write every day, brain dump, woe is me feelings write pannuradhu, pain, dissatisfaction write pannuradhu. Negative thoughts-a force pannama natural-a write pannuradhu. Read pannuradhu, patterns notice pannuradhu, highlight, organize, revisit, anger pannuradhu, feelings control pannuradhu anger pannuradhu. Gym, walk, activity-la anger channel pannuradhu. Anger productive-a pannuradhu. Daily fitness physically, mentally strong pannum. Eventually better feel pannuva, energetic, happier, content. Confidence foundation. Negative thoughts-a clear picture paint pannuradhu, away from work pannuradhu valid. Mental space, clarity vandha, enna like pannuren, interested, good at, want-nu think pannalaam. Life ebb and flow, repeat pannanum. Circle, not straight line. Stasis-lendhu veliya vara learn pannanum, momentum pull pannum.
Three decades depression-oda fight panninen, lasting victory win panniten. Surprising tools: Hard time-la smile force pannuradhu, even if off feel pannalum, dopamine release pannum. Sleep, food, physical activity analyze pannuradhu, optimize pannuradhu. Therapist secure pannuradhu, whatever work pannuren-nu talk pannuradhu. Pride in accomplishments, list build pannuradhu, down feel pannumpo refer pannuradhu.
Antidepressants and CBT.
Ketamine. Ketamine clinic-la severe depression-kku.
Shrooms. Micro dosing. Not for everyone, aana enakku work pannum. 52 (M).
DBT tremendously help pannidhu. Prescriptions-lendhu get off pannuradhu. Day to day routine change pannuradhu. Harm pannura things let go pannuradhu.
Alcohol cut pannuradhu.
Ketamine and therapy. IV ketamine clinic-la panninen, later Spravato. Therapy-oda combine pannina, literally lifesaving. Last resort after constant suicidal ideation, anhedonia, depression. Work pannidhu, ippo sooooo much better!!!
Medication.
Depression-a beat pannala-nu sure illa. Learn to live with it, better deal pannuradhu, aana always back-la irukkum. Realistic expectations important, illana “beat panniten” nu think pannitu, back vandha why-nu wonder pannuva. Ups and downs irukkum.
Jesus-oda reconnect pannuradhu.
Do something. 3 years sleeping, doomscrolling pannitu irundhen, motivation, energy illa. Family friend store-la job offer pannaru, 8 hours counter-la stand pannuradhu, dozen people-a help pannuradhu. Boredom-nala eduthen. House-lendhu veliya varadhu, occasional person-oda talk pannuradhu, different place-la irundhadhu first cracks pannidhu. Magical saving grace illa, several years good friends support-oda mindset-lendhu veliya vandhen, aana starting point steady-a improve pannuradhu-kku.
Depression-a truly defeat pannala, learn to live with it, bad aana deal pannuradhu. Physiological, psychological, emotional markers notice pannuradhu, precautions edukkuradhu, closest people-kku inform pannuradhu, comfort things surround pannuradhu, plans cancel pannuradhu okay. Diet watch pannuradhu, cocoon adhigama pannadha, fine-a iruppa. Honesty, deserve pannavangakku solluradhu, others need not know. Fight pannalaam, survive pannalaam. I believe in you.
Neurodivergent burnout-nu realize pannuradhu, depression illa. Rest adhigama pannuren, sensory issues pathi aware-a irukken.
Good advice irukkuravangaloda reply pannuren, reminder: Ill aavuradhu okay. Burden illa, crazy illa, pain real even if others paakala. Heal aarambichonna, happiest days irukkum, appuram suddenly horrible feel pannuva. Drag down pannadha. It does get better!
Microdosing.
Depression-a defeat pannala, manage pannuradhu. Things you love-oda busy-a irukkuradhu, phone illa, community, outside poga, alcohol illa, friends-oda irukkuradhu.
Routine, positive routine. Daily workout, jiu jitsu, brain exercise (Duolingo, read, etc). Activity endorphins increase pannum, learning focus pannuradhu, horizons expand pannum. Distraction, routine-lendhu deviate pannumpo irritable aaguren. Everyday stratagems not to fall apart. Perfect illa, flaws irukku, aana nothing-oda compare pannina better.
Hide pannuradhu, keep going. Fake it until you make it. Enakku work pannidhu.
Success at something you really enjoy & repeatable.
rTMS.
Positive-a stay pannuradhu, others enna think pannurangalo, paakurangalo control pannida mudiyadhu-nu realize pannuradhu, en opinion dhaan matters. Let go pannuradhu learn pannuradhu, negative influences cut pannuradhu, feelings, thoughts others dictate pannavendam-nu learn pannuradhu, laugh pannuradhu reasons find pannuradhu, even if at myself.
Really bad place-la irundhen, prayed, Heavenly Almighty Father-oda close aaginen. Thank you God for our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.
Patient, loving partner. En husband broken person-oda irukka reason illa, aana love unconditional-nu kaattinaru, avan give up pannadhadhu enna give up pannama inspire pannidhu. Cheesy aana unconditional love enna back on my feet pannidhu. Depression waves-la varum, aana handle pannuradhu theriyum.
Daughter-a one and half years ago lose panninen, depression suffer panninen, aana God-oda lean panninen, avan pull through pannaru! Ippo others loss-lendhu get through pannuradhu-kku help pannuren.
Divorce.
God-kku en life-a koduthen. Crazy experience, aana snap of a finger-la depression, anxiety-a heal pannaru, over a decade deal panninen. Adhukku apparam life up dhaan.
God dhaan, deep depression, despair-la irundhappo, nothing else save pannala, only one who could-kku reach panninen.
God-oda closer aaguradhu.
Magic mushroom.
Jesus.
Healthy diet, exercise, medication.
Medication.
Medication and Behavioral Therapy.
Meditation. Some people bunk-nu think pannuranga, aana wrong. Trouble sticking with it, drinking issues every few months. Simple aana annoyingly difficult to get right.
No contact with shitty family for 5 years, DUI vandhu, treatment pona, drinking quit panninen, therapy panninen, DBT complete panninen, family respect-a treat pannanum-nu boundaries set panninen, illana deathbed/funeral attend pannala-nu clear panninen. Hard aana work pannidhu, happier than ever, dysfunction forever panniten.
Depression-a “defeat” pannala, coping mechanisms, manage pannuradhu learn pannuradhu.
Exercise.
Ketamine IV therapy, ayahuasca, 5 MEO DMT, talk/somatic therapy integrate pannuradhu. Suicidal-a irundhen, long time suicidal thought illa.
Supplements start panninen. Ashwaghanda, Omega-3 fish oil, vitamins D3/K2, B complex. Mood elevate pannidhu, motivation vandhu, gym consistently hit panninen, eating/sleeping better panninen.
ADHD meds. Everyone maari think pannuradhu, function pannuradhu possible aachu.
Magnesium supplements and exercise.
Drugs quit pannuradhu, purpose vachukuradhu.
LSD.
Psychiatrist pona, meds vandhu, cat vachukitten. Cats + meds motivation koduthu, new things try pannuradhu, body move pannuradhu, darkness-la fall pannama irukkuradhu. 2-3 years eduthuchu, small goals achieve panninen, regular-a feed panninen. Everything fleeting-nu realize panninen, depression again vandha, fog clear aagum, routine-ku back varuven-nu patience-a irukkanum.
Depression defeat pannida mudiyuma? Good days, bad days irukku. Depression always irukku.
Toxic relationship-lendhu veliya vandhu, household clean pannuradhu grip panninen. Deeply depressed-a irundha everything tough, aana dishes immediately away pannuradhu, week later 20 unwashed dishes deal pannavendam-nu panninen.
Medication and years of Therapy.
Tibetan book of Living and Dying.
Environment-a better-a change pannuradhu. Toxic people, places, family-lendhu get away pannuradhu. Circus-la join pannu, Rosetta clown-oda love-la vilu, life path realign pannu. Passionate-a edhuvum find pannu, dead end jobs, shitty friendships dark hallway paakuradha vittu. Belong pannura place find pannu. Full sincerity-oda, heart follow pannu, same place-ku heart lead pannura people-a find pannuva. Everything vittu leave panninum.
Rope.
Alcohol and Spotify.
Jesus.
Church poga aarambichen.
Depression-a beat pannala, far enough keep pannuradhu life vaazha mudiyum.
Social outlet, exercise, healthy diet, no/little stress, no drugs/alcohol.
Drinking quit panninen (one year and change), regular-a exercise, outside regular-a pona, better eat panninen (fast foods cut, more leafy greens).
Progress pannu, nothing can stop u but u, continue life, where it brings paaru.
Diet and exercise prescription vida powerful. Authentic, sustainable changes, aana money pannadhu, so TV-la meds pathi adhigama pesuranga.
Find someone cute and codependent, complain, only blame yourself.
What you hate about yourself accept pannu, adhu just you-nu understand pannu. Behind closed doors pannu.
Tried to hang myself, belt broke, floor-la wake aagiten, pissed myself. Realized gravity of what I did, family impact, lucky reversible belt use panninen. Suicidal thoughts illa. Years later, birthday-la depressed-a irundhen, LSD use panninen, favorite nature spot-ku pona, 8 hours just thought panninen. Thinking shift aachu, depression level illa.
Anti depressants.
Going trans. Whole life hiding who I was. Not always solution, enakku work pannidhu. Friends kept me from killing myself.
Journaling.
Inpatient treatment, ketamine therapy, TMS, ongoing therapy. Never ends, never defeat pannidala.
Depression comes and goes. Healthy lifestyle maintain pannuren, eat right, sleep right, exercise. Varum-nu theriyum, aana pogum-nu theriyum.
Depression-a beat pannala, manageable now. Bad day admit pannuradhu, let myself have bad day, tomorrow better aagum-nu remind pannuradhu.
Prozac, therapist pona, advice follow panninen.
Drinking stop panninen. Early wake aagi gym pona. Never felt better in my life.
Everyone try pannanum what works for themselves. Antidepressants work aana great, exercise work aana wonderful, life change work aana good. Same for everyone illa. Some defeat pannala, manage pannuranga. DBT anxiety manage pannuradhu-kku great tool, depression-kku contribute pannum.
ACT therapy. Just therapist paakuradhu illa, implement pannuradhu learn pannuradhu, teach pannuradhu. Teach pannama internalize pannida mudiyadhu.
God. Never diagnosed, aana large part of life depression irundhuchu-nu think pannuren. Ippo deal pannala.
Keto. Diet brain-a eppadi affect pannum-nu theriyala, carbs cut pannina, anchor around ankles pochu.
Depression-nu admit pannuradhu, help venum-nu pannuradhu. Creeps up sometimes, aana pass aagum-nu theriyum.
Therapy, daily meditation. Every other way try panniten. One year DBT, few months trauma therapy, severely depressed-a decade irundha apparam other side-la irukken. Everyday use pannuren, improve pannuren. Mental health hygiene mindset, tools real-a pannum. Sincere luck on your journey.
Depression-a reduce panniten, defeat pannala. Meds try panninen, right ones find panninen, years therapy, good fit find panninen, couples counseling, TMS, ECT, esketamine. Diet small changes, exercise start panninen, healthy relationships develop panninen. Higher income push panninen. Try pannuradhu, what works find pannuradhu. Years edukkum, aana always hope irukku.
Time and God preventing me from permanent thing. Puberty-nala emotionally unbalanced. Wait panninen, feelings magically improve aachu.
Jesus. Downvoted aagum, aana one person-kku help aana podhum. Depression, anxiety defeat pannidhu, peace-a fill pannidhu. Desperate-a irundha try pannu, call out pannina answer kedaikkum.
DMT.
Different country-ku move panninen. Situation-lendhu completely veliya vandhen. Outdoor hobbies find panninen, veliya poga force pannum. Habits rip pannidhu, new ones build panninen.
Outside poga.
Meditation. Feel, think, see, hear observe pannu, or breath watch pannu, present moment vida important illa-nu therinjukuradhu. Most problems thoughts-lendhu varudhu, mind creativity sometimes overwhelmed.
Depression mild-a irundhuchu, diagnosed aana hard to digest. TikTok-la Limitless movie main character super smart aana first action clean, organize pannuradhu-nu explain pannina. Clutter remove pannuradhu, energy open pannum-nu “diagnosed”. Adhu naal workbench-la screws organize panninen. Daily organize panninen. Control priceless. Random screw venum-na box open pannumpo, control eduthen-nu remind aagudhu. Help vandhu, med-la konjam time irundhen.
Intentionally situation change panninen. Better people-oda surround panninen. Less drinking, drugs. More sun. Sitting with myself, what I need-nu get to know panninen.
Every drug, suicidal ideations daily, 6 weeks every other day ECT pannidhu. 2+ years, still brain-oda daily fight pannala.
Support biggest thing, willingness to reach out, lean on support second.
Naan support venam-nu feel pannuren. Talk pannuradhu venam, life enmesh pannuradhu hate pannuren. Others feelings navigate pannuradhu my job maari feel aagudhu, nothing return-la kedaikkala. Depression makes me feel this way-nu theriyum, aana intimate level-la people deal pannuradhu exhausting, nothing left-nu feel pannuren. Congenial person, job relationships, interaction pathi, aana cantankerous troll illa, cultivate pannuradhu desire illa.
yeah progresss
Real wisdom idhu. Depression fix pannuradhu-nu think pannuravanga, happy feel pannanum, happiness chase pannuradhu-nu think pannuranga. Happiness fleeting, incidental, chase pannuradhu more suffering-kku lead pannum, difficult things avoid pannumpo short-term good feels-kku. Good habits create pannina, consistently live pannina, difficult things avoid pannala, normal day maari pannuren. Suffering reduce pannuradhu. Happiness moments-la find pannalaam.
Examples kodunga?
Mobilis in mobili. Movement from movement, change from change. Captain Nemo's Nautilus wall-la ezhudhi irundhuchu. Naan adha remember pannuren.
First moment of happiness twinge… years struggle apparam found again… even for a moment, who I am, who I can be-nu remind pannidhu. Life cultivate pannuradhu-kku want pannidhu. Ippo 75% to 90% time feel pannuren. Down moments, struggles irukku, therapy, friends, small steps forward-kku thanks. Deepest depression-la… years… never feel good again-nu thought panninen. Cheers to YOU! One step at a time… feeling good for a minute healthy way-la vandha… savor pannu… bad feel pannalum accept pannu. Power to change your life, get help, learn new things, flexible, adaptable aagu, be kind to yourself.
Jobs change pannuradhu, life circumstances (bad family/friends/roommates) fix pannuradhu depression avoid pannuradhu-kku key. Sometimes depression life sucks-nala compound aagudhu, difference theriyala.
Ippo indha maari pannuren: moment-la irukkuradhu, nothing plan pannala. Productive-a irukka, time chase pannala-nu oblige pannala. Brain long break-kku ache pannudhu-nu seem pannudhu. Right track-la irukken-nu confirm pannuradhu-kku thanks, downtime guilt shake off pannuren.
Society depression create pannuradhu-kku build pannirukku-nu think pannuren. Depressed-a irundha control pannuradhu easier, do whatever told or nudged. Many people depressed, politicians-kku mass of maneuver. Silently, slowly depression varudhu, suddenly dark place-la irukken-nu realize pannuren.
Same experience maari irukku. Dawn slowly breaking. Bad dream end aagum-nu hope pannuren. Un path follow pannuren.
First period-la naan romba thoonginen. Oru stage-la night thavira thoongura need illa-nu sonnavan quote pannuren. First vacation eduthen, good time, stress-related nail biting stop panninen. Week ago home vandhen, still excessive napping, sleeping. De-stressed enough-nu cue, recovery try pannuren… progress pannuren! Better today than few months ago. Sad reality, others vida harder try pannanum. En personality hate pannuren, aana love pannuradhu learn pannuradhu time edukkum. Progress pannina, couple years-la how far vandhen-nu paarpom. /r/depression pessimists maari irukkadha.
Running-la music remove pannuradhu meditative aspect-kku help pannuma?
Alone with thoughts irukkuradhu good life-kku vital-nu think pannuren.
Music illama? Why?
Ex-oda 12 years apparam 2023 end-la cheating catch panninen. Depression last year middle-la really bad, aana light at the end of tunnel paakuradhu start panninen. Substance abuse major problem, crutch-a use pannuren, works most of the time. Ex pathi horrific stories keluren, behind my back horrible-a irundhava. Memory of her remove pannita maari irukkum-nu wish pannuren. Dating try panninen, small town-la losing battle, one person-oda time spend pannitu. She rebounded with cheating guy, who knows how many cheating now. Single day illama, naan one and half years touch pannala.
Same thing 3 years ago panninen. Yourself-a find pannuren, making yourself again fun part.
Health shift pannuradhu-kku one simple thing: drink edukkum munna, “idhu really better feel pannum-nu ask pannuren. Genuinely better feel pannum-nu believe pannina, pannuren. Sure illa-na, skip pannuren. Late night, few beers apparam, continue pannuradhu tempt aagum, aana wind down for bed better feel pannum-nu realize pannuren. Positive loop: less drinking, better feel, fewer cravings, cycle reinforce pannudhu. Snacking-kkum same trick work pannidhu.
Incandescent people find panninen, life brighter-a irukku.
Indecent people like pannuren. Very indecent.
Silly thing therapist suggest pannaru, “this isn’t you, this is a spiral” remind pannuradhu-kku, sadness/shame spiral-a en little sister sweet, kind person maari voice pannuren. Adhu enna shock pannidhu, spiral-lendhu separate pannidhu, without feeling caught. Someone else same thing sollura maari imagine pannuren, “why she say that about herself? Obviously not true… why you say that about yourself?” maari gut reaction. Negative self-talk spiral-la break pannuradhu helpful.
High blood pressure, IBS years irundhuchu, GP “better care of health” nu sonnaru, next year physical-la “health why so much better?” nu ketaru. “Divorce panniten” nu sonnen. Really adhu dhaan.
Pills-kku “alternatives” suggest pannuravangala punch pannanum-nu feel panninen, shortcut maari talk pannuranga. Bitch, en head physically function pannala, meds help pannidhu! Sole solution illa, hard work, therapy venum, aana medical help illama pannirukka mudiyadhu.
Medication things worse pannum-nu some people-kku (enakku maari). Psychiatrist, psychologist care-la irukkanum, what works-nu understand pannuradhu-kku.
Chemicals alter brain function-nu against-a irundhen, “mess my mind up” nu believe panninen, “masking symptoms” nu thought panninen, situation change pannina chemical help venam-nu. Therapy, yoga, meditation, self-help books, outside poga, friends meet panninen, aana dread, anxiousness heavy feeling pogala… SSRI sertraline start pannina apparam, weeks/months-la difference feel panninen, grey cloud, stomach knot disappear aachu. Hope about future koduthu, situation forever illa-nu realize pannidhu, momentarily myself again feel panninen. Boost koduthu, life changes pannuradhu-kku allow pannidhu.
Fluoxetine benefit pannidhu, aana weird feel panninen. Happier illa, nothing feel panninen. Despair-lendhu break welcome-a irundhuchu. Zero energy, hollow feel panninen. Permanently altered feel pannuren, pills-nala or life experience-nala theriyala. Nothing like before happy pannala. “Meh” feel pannuren. Dose right pannuradhu big factor, initial dose half panninen, initial dose sedated maari pannidhu, sleep dhaan pannanum-nu feel panninen.
20s-la diagnosed aana, 3 days thoonginen, 2x pee panninen. Therapist zoloft recommend pannaru, weeks edukkum-nu warn pannaru. Life full crying, happy, sad, excited, angry ellam crying. Zoloft day three-la “wait, naan cry pannala today!!!!” Amazing! 7 or 8 years work pannidhu, apparam break eduthu again work pannidhu.
Chemicals not balanced? Doctors test pannurangala? Biomarkers imbalance suggest pannuma?
Not everybody months or years stick pannuradhu-kku time irukku. Emotional place-la CBT effectively try pannida mudiyadhu. Medication function pannuradhu-kku point kodukkum.
CBT/CPT joke maari. 10 reasons every week why you are wrong, emotions wrong nu write pannu, better feel pannuva!
Wellbutrin + Zoloft “Well-Loft” nu call pannuranga, many people-kku incredible!
Dosing up-nu enna mean? 4 weeks 75 mg, not doing well.
Same story. Public healthcare system TMS repeat pannuradha or ketamine try pannuradha decide pannudhu.
TMS neurodiverse folks-kku work pannala (friend study pannaru, big takeaway). Partner study-la participate pannaru, help pannala. ADHD diagnosis, medication vandhu help pannidhu.
Smallest things manage pannina, celebrate pannanum. Little things build aagum.
Indha period-la naan dhaan.
Bed-la full day depression-oda irukken. Aneurysm tonight vandha good.
Mindset change pannuradhu-kku idhu help pannum.
Bipolar, depression lifelong, aana learn pannina apparam better aachu. Forced illa, depressed-a productive-a irukkuradhu bed rotting vida better feel pannum. Brain do nothing-nu solludhu, brain liar. Others argue pannuvanga, past-la naan panniruppen. Meds force pannuradhu-kku energy koduthu, discipline really help pannidhu. Depressive episode-la irukken, tail end maari feel pannuren. Harder fight pannuren, things do pannuren, working. One day brain ketten, bed rotted, worse aachu.
Clinically diagnosed-a, medication or therapy pannurangala? Ideally both. Consistency-oda “fake it until you make it” depression-kku help pannum. Chemical imbalance irundha limited dhaan. Brain against work pannudhu-nu therinja advantage. Depression enakku incapable feel pannuradhu, others easily pannuradhu pannida mudiyala. Bed-la irukka prefer pannalum, veliya poga force pannuren, win. Positive reinforcement against depression.
Depression worse pannidhu long run-la.
Lexapro nothing pannala, orgasm impossible pannidhu. Month and half apparam drop panninen.
Increasing dose help pannala, lifeless pannidhu. Climax pannida mudiyala tired aagiten.
Clinically depressed vs sad-a irukkuravanga walk pona difference theriyum.
Psilocybin. Wife and naan power paathu, ippo facilitator-a train pannura.
Ayahuasca betting, answer kelunga.
Touching grass real. Animals-a cages-la poduradhu-nu remember pannu.
Depression fog maari, small start pannu. 10-15 minutes neighborhood walk mood difference pannum, keep going pannum.
Pokémon go start panninen, super important-nu convince pannikitten. Dog venum, aana help pannum.
Sun magic maari. Star far away, D vitamin-kku crucial, nonsense maari irukku, aana true. Skin certain light need pannum, sun boatloads provide pannum. Eyes, serotonin production promote pannum, evening melatonin-a convert aagum. Outdoors early pona, afternoon less shitty, calm feel pannum, night better sleep. Shade-la irundhalum sun’s light bounce pannum, work pannum. Phone, books illama, head lift pannu, nature calmly paaru. Exercise work pannum, periodic or training program mental benefits kodukkum, brain fog dissipate pannum, sleep help pannum, sharper, better mood. Non-hostile, non-sad in-person human interaction, social beings, brains light up pannum, mundane talk pannalum. Introverted, hermit-like people-kkum work pannum. Talk pannuradhu objective, no high expectations, no pressure. Depression-la everything hard, pointless, aana indha activities natural medicines, taste bad aana work pannum.
Exercise only thing work pannidhu. 5 or 6 meds, 15 years therapy try panninen. Intense exercise venam, walks/nature trails start panninen. Phone use pannu, pictures edu, music venumna kelu. “Motion is lotion.” Over-rest depressive state. Brain, body cave-la dopamine device-oda 24/7/365 irukka meant illa.
Ketamine sharing pannadhu-kku thanks. Important perspective. Not cure all, underlying issues address pannala-na escape maari aagum. Chronic pain-kku infusions, pain brain wiring mess pannum, depression trigger pannidhu. Ketamine rewire pannuradhu-kku help pannidhu. Self-awareness, deeper work commitment powerful. Healing, growth continue pannu.
Weed same reason use panninen. Helps some, hurts others. Miracle-nu solluranga, addicted aaguren. Anything try pannuren, aana addict-nu theriyum, initially help pannalum, eventually abuse pannuven.
Breakup crazy-a irundhuchu.
Pool-lendhu konjam time veliya edukkuradhu venum.
TMS helmet head-la poduranga. Electrical pulse left top-lendhu right side poidhu. Earplugs podanum. Fast MRI maari sound. Technician intensity adjust pannuva. Low-lendhu start, gradually increase, 20 minute sessions. Feel pannuva, high intensity handle pannala, so 2 sessions panninen. Touch up treatments venum-nu solluvanga, 2 years aachu, fine-a irukken. Entire life depressed, antidepressants continue pannuren. House-lendhu veliya poga, activities pannuren.
Low-intensity TMS panninen, 15yrs dysthymia + depression fix pannidhu. Forehead-la pencil eraser end-oda whack pannura maari. Pain illa, annoying. 15min sessions, 5x a week, eight weeks. Afford pannina, time irundha 100% recommend, 3 years depression illa.
TMS few side effects, aana every treatment 20 minutes headache koduthu. Fine, temporary-nu therinju, prepare pannikonga.
Behaviors choose pannalaam. Behaviors change pannina, less depressed feel pannuva.
Depression forget pannuren instantly. Males-kku dhaan work pannum, unfortunately.
Mantra daily life-la use pannuren, work settings-la super great work pannum. New thing try pannumpo, perfection progress-kku get in the way aagadha-nu remind pannuradhu mindsets change pannum. First time boss stroke varum-nu thought panninen, never thought that way. Baby steps bro, baby steps.
Contentment first stage maari feel pannuren. Neutral-la long time vaazhnden, depression illa, aana happiness achieve pannala. Process dhaan.
Chronically depressed people suffering reduce pannanumnu want pannuranga, always happy illa.
Depression explains pannum, doomed illa.
ADHD irukku, perfection or goodness focus illa, smallest task slowly complete pannuradhu help pannum. Bad high ride pannura maari, slowly, imperfectly end pannuradhu trust build pannum.
ADHD 30s-la diagnose panninen. Women-la anxiety, depression maari represent pannum, aana women, girls research limited, diagnose pannuradhu time edukkum.
Entropy beauty paakuradhu try pannuren. Indha reason-nala dhaan naama irukkom.
ADHD irukku. “Be consistent” wrong phrasing. Happiness chase pannuradhu focus pannama (ADHD folks-kku relevant), better days support pannura life details focus pannuradhu. Bed early poga, distracting website blocker install pannuradhu, chocolate home-la keep pannadha, miserable aaguradhu avoid pannuradhu. Happiness chase pannina, long-term destructive choices pannuven. Mindset: always feel good venam.
Already pannuren :(
Walk to work 20 minutes morning, evening, ippo ennai hate pannuren :/
Clean space mentally help pannum. Clutter, trash depression-kku root cause. Clean pannina weight lift aagum, world glow pannum, until not.
“Wasting time” definition change panninen, brain downtime work smart over work hard-nu allow pannuradhu. Brain fog, focus illa-na productive-a irukka tough.
Leave poga set aagiten. Friday last day for a month.
Work 8 hours weekdays-la edukkum, toxic work environment entire day horrible pannum. Toxic workplace-la work pannuren, work-a life-lendhu detach pannuren, little hours enjoy pannuren.
Depression support group-la job burnout pathi pesinavanga, job change pannuren-nu sonnanga. Quit pannuradhu nerve fight pannuradhu-kku congratulated. Some groaned, two desperately quit pannanum-nu sonnanga, no choice. Life quit pannuradhu way kodutha wonderful gift.
Below $75K less happy, $125K significantly happier, more than that not much happier. Loose memory of a study.
High income-la unhappiest-a irundhen. Ippo less pannuren, aana very happy.
Money nice, aana miss pannuradhu depressed pannala.
WHOOOOA member of congress irukkuradhu theriyala!
Brain out pannuradhu easy, hard part brain out pannuradhu.
Hotel, so Trivago use panninen.
Study link panninen.
Bad food like fried food eat pannina bad feel, good food like salad eat pannina good feel. After eating how you feel-nu think pannu, adhu want pannura feel-a?
Voices in my head innum keluren.
DDP Yoga biggest help. One diamond cutter vida adhigama venum!
BAAAANG!
Depression brain “stay in bed” nu solludhu, aana do something pannina better feel pannuven. Wallow pannida venam!
Reconnect pannuren, comments like yours encouraging. Thanks!
Daily vitamin D supplements start pannina life change aachu. First change paakala, apparam “wait, life challenging illa wth” nu aachu.
Username checks out.
Fellow polar bear! Meds ups and downs flatten pannidhu, manage pannuradhu easier. Therapist godsend, contentment find pannuradhu, moods manage pannuradhu, hard parts pass pannum-nu trust pannuradhu pathi teach pannaru. Fairy godmother-nu call pannuren, pumpkin carriage bumpy road-la kodutharu. Road travel pannanum, assistance-oda.
Depressed ippo, aana protective measures build pannirukken, cope pannuren, okay pannuren. Illana bed-lendhu veliya varala. Medicine maari flare ups worse, less frequent, aana happen pannum.
Depression gone again-nu think pannuren.
Standing, chewing time spend pannuren.
Spinning brushy brushy things-oda rub pannuren.
Failing sets pathi better feel pannuren. Needed to hear that.
Restarting skill most helped. ADHD irukku, habit restart pannuradhu commit pannuradha vida adhigama needed. Life, abilities habit keep pannuradhu-kku enough illa, restarting skills saved. Radical acceptance of failure, okay to fail. Yesterday failure today effect illa, let go pannu, fresh start aagu. Multiple options vachukuradhu, same thing eventually good feel pannadhu, rotation of good options venum. Restarting routines quickly slip pannuradhu valuable skill.
One activity: up aaguren, Advil or symptoms reduce pannuradhu, safely veliya hobble pannuren, home vandhu cat-oda floor-la pass out, rest pannuren.
Running, surgeries, wisdom teeth out (worst) 30 years pannuren. Cross train pannuren, one full rest day, daily pushups one set pannuren. Injury pannama, suffering through suck long run-la better feel pannum. Pro athlete illa, dedicated to sports. Outdoor sports-la mental health issues irukku, running from something. Chronic anxiety/depression, Wellbutrin, therapy as needed, under control.
Podcast-oda run pannuren. Recently no earbuds run panninen. Anxious, depressed things reflect panninen. Processed, better feel panninen, meditate pannina maari.
Running, hiking music illama serene, meditative aspects enhance pannum.
Never run, walk with music, never will.
Overstimulated lives, every minute music, video, fill pannuradhu. Constantly entertained-a irukka meant illa, empty spaces value studies show pannum. Process pannuradhu-kku time kodukkum, mind breathe pannum. Nature sounds stress reduce pannum.
Daughter-a she took, almost a month paakala, talk pannala. Trying. Kind words-kku thanks.
Talk to yourself like dog good pannina maari, out loud. Ridiculous, laugh pannama irukka mudiyadhu.
Cheers to that!!
Serotonin make pannida mudiyala, store brought fine.
Monoamine hypothesis mid-1900s-la create aachu, depression dopamine, serotonin, noradrenaline imbalances-nu. Debunked aachu, aana popular explanation. Neuroscience degree.
CBT valid view. Emotions regulate pannuradhu-kku good, aana 24/7 chronic depression-kku viable illa. Drowning a little less still drowning. Experiential therapies chronic emotions-kku effective. Life experiences absorb pannuradhu-kku learn pannuradhu. Childhood emphasis cliche, foundational years world implicit-a know pannuradhu-kku. People danger-nu associate pannina, brain people = danger learn pannidhu. CBT emotional memory target pannuradhu terrible. Therapies erase/rewrite emotional component, underlying symptom eliminate pannum. CBT upstream swimming maari, resistant, usually work pannadhu, empathy lack pannum, subconscious solution younger you thought best.
Love you. Soon get through pannu, champion-a veliya varu. Smallest victories set pannu. Showering once a week victory, mattered.
Discipline practice venum-nu therapy teach pannidhu. Meds energy kodukkum, things do pannanum-nu force pannuren. Depression mind over matter. Meds illama bed-lendhu veliya vara mudiyadhu. Meds should do things pannuradhu-kku energy kodukkum.
Lexapro + high intensity exercise, good diet insane, crazy high feel panninen, aana insensitive asshole maari pannidhu. Depression symptoms off pannumpo, other emotions off aagum, sadness feel pannuradhu tough, others sad feel pannumpo sad feel pannuradhu tough. Tapering off consider pannuren.
Exercise antidepressants outperform pannidhu studies-la. Neither disregard pannadha, both benefit pannum.
Psychedelics decades self-hatred ease pannidhu, childhood-lendhu. Homophobia internalized gay kid-a evangelicalism-la, suddenly stop pannidhu, real problem adults love claim pannitu hate fill pannidhu-nu emotions pivot pannidhu. Depression steam eduthudhu. Vipassana meditation SSRIs leave pannidhu (SSRIs life saved).
Setup eppadi irundhuchu? Controlled setting-la?
Psychedelics try pannuren, aana puking down illa.
Mum trying to be there, help pannuradhu-nu theriyum. En pain avanukku unbearable pain. Aana brain numb, nothing feel pannanum-nu advice edukkuradhu tough. Your troubles-kku sorry, worst struggles-la idhu one. Small joys find pannuren, keep going-kku. Step by step.
Side effects irundhucha?
Dominatrix-a, 100% women-kkum work pannum-nu solluren.
Yeah man, drinking quit pannuradhu-kku help pannudhu!
Introspective aagu, depression source find pannu. Situations overnight remedy pannida mudiyadhu, aana awareness first step better place-kku.
Same, enna problem?
Incredible choice choosing yourself! Space from environment perspective, inspiration kodukkum-nu hope pannuren!
Better job find pannuren, current job-lendhu almost start panninen, nothing kedaikkala. Hell-la irukken.
$75-125k sweet spot, 80% Americans $50k/yr less pannuranga. No wonder miserable!
Dimentia Donald Dump.
Futurama-lendhu vandha maari.
Life changing article aagum.
Correlation boys-la paathu, girls-la illa-nu interesting.
They counsel me, understand, THEY TALK TO MEEEEE.
Being milked...
Every piece of advice “silly things” maari feel pannudhu, brain kill pannuradhu try pannumpo.
Good stoic.
Hypomania maari sound pannudhu. Bipolar type 2, you might be.
Psychedelics established thought patterns off pannuma? Deep-rooted quickly disappear pannadhu-nu doubt, curious.
Trump gov’t money cut pannuradhu threaten pannaru, Elon cheap suit maari fold pannaru.
Second round TMS catastrophic thinking kondu vandhuchu, treatment wrap pannina apparam pochu.
Source capitalism-nu paathuten. Ippo enna?
No solution always, chemical imbalance in brain, clinical depression, not sadness. Medication, therapy important options, perspective change pannida mudiyadhu.
Toxic boss-lendhu burnout recover pannuren. She “retire” pannita, next one worse. Same cake, different frosting. First time save pannirukkanum. Enforcer 3 months stress-kku leave poitu vandhutan. Twat waffle-a meetings-la paakka mudiyala. Back vandha, avan poiruvan.
Medical bankruptcy, insurance swindling fear illana easier.
ZING!! Good one, well done!
Reddit exchanges make sense pannudhu.
“Most” nu sonnadhu love pannuren. Not all show up to work all the time.
Call coming from inside the house.
Depressed people poorly eat, less move pannuranga.
Study issues irukku, too much read pannadha. Something of interest irukku, weaknesses account pannu.
Science research mostly men-oda study pannirukku. Next 10-20 years women data kedaikkum, hopefully. Woman-a, “forgotten” pannuradhu like pannala.
Muwu.
Own thoughts scary-na, unresolved issues irukku. Wellbeing worse pannum.
Shrooms game changer. Childhood trauma, depression, anxiety. First bought, couple uses apparam grow panninen. Lexapro, Wellbutrin vida better, zero side effects. Economical, $12 syringe 200-300g dried, one person-kku adhigam. 6-8 weeks inoculation to harvest. Some strains faster. Can’t recommend enough.
Brain sponge maari, rubber bands wrap pannirukku. Shape original form-lendhu change aachu. Bands beliefs, learned prejudices, mind shape pannum. Psychedelics bands remove pannum, think pannida mudiyadhu-nu theriyadha ways-la think pannum.
18-26 vayasu think panninen. Brain exploded (psychotic episode), stress induced. Logical brain world’s problems solve pannanum-nu try pannidhu, pannala. Nearby community-la problems solve pannuren-nu decide panninen. Capitalism ruining everything dread cycle-lendhu eduthudhu. Capitalism ruining, aana en quadrant-la something pannuren.
Existential or exogenous depression, chemical depression illa. Dr K video irukku. Depression logic-lendhu varudhu, chemical imbalance illa.
Smh going so well! You had it!!
Doom spiral maari, illa?
Women little studied, not surprising, aana insane.
Half the people studied girls.
Exogenous depression. Exo = outside. External events, stressors trigger, internal biological causes illa.
AuDHD IT guy-kku right-a irukku. Recommendation-kku thanks.
Women exist pannina years dismiss pannuradhu baffling.
Face your demons. Poor lifting technique back injure pannina, same technique repair pannida mudiyadhu. Texting while driving crash pannina, texting pannuradhu crashes reduce pannadhu. Running away from thoughts depression cause pannina, running away cure pannadhu.
Female animals use pannala. Female mice male vida less expensive, aana…
Women 15 years-a exist pannuranga-nu thought panninen?!
Smartphone, instant-gratification-distraction problem. Overthinking, fear of uncertainty executive dysfunction cause pannum.
Grad school-la rat testing lab-la irundhen. Male rats only use pannanga. Why-nu keten, “female rats hormones mess up experiments” nu sonnanga. Bullshit, sexist-nu sonnen, care pannala. Ippo konjam better, aana still bad. Male rats hormones irukku, variable control pannina male, female rats test pannirukkalam, aana expensive, so male rats choice.
Psychology class-la learn panninen, crazy!
Hysterical read hormonal-nu consistent results kedaikkala, try pannala.

Idhu depression pathi irukku. Sometimes veliya irundhu influences (bad job, bad place to live, poor health, traumatic events) depression cause pannum, aana sometimes idhu internal, maybe endocrine disorder, maybe underlying mental health disorders. Seek pannuradhu medical help-ku bayapadadha or embarrassed aagadha. You never know, simple-a irukkalaam. Mental health-a physical health maari treat pannanum. Ankle sprain pannina medical attention seek pannuva, depression-um same urgency and care-oda treat pannanum. Take care of yourself.
People-a pick pannadha, hobby pick pannu, appuram andha hobby pannura people-a find pannu. Frankly, avanunga un vacation-la enna pannu-nu care pannala. "Naan easy-a eduthen, gym-ku few times poinen" nu solluradhu more than acceptable, "Naan unwind pannanum... bla bla bla" nu solluradhu venam.
Worst part enna-na, paper-la ellam good-a irukku, so un brain kooda unna gaslight pannum, nee indha maari feel pannakoodadhu-nu. Aana isolation un head-a quiet, sneaky ways-la mess pannum. Nee broken illa... nee just lonely, adhu most people admit pannuradha vida hard-a hit pannum. Small-a start pannu. Absurdly small. One text back pannu. Veliya oru walk pannu, just people around irukka. Wild adventure venam... life unna surprise pannum-nu proof venum. Overnight ellam fix pannadhu, aana pattern break pannum. Sometimes adhu enough.
Basic bloodwork pannu, iron, ferritin, B12, folate, vitamin D check pannu. Middle of range or higher illa-na, something irukku. All the best.
Vacation-lendhu work-ku back poga hate pannuren. Everybody enna pannu-nu kekkuranga, naan just "fish" nu solluren. Obviously another job find pannala-nu sollala, indha shithole-ku back vandhuten. Are you me? This hit close to home.
Therapist-a paaru, why people-a un life-la let pannuradhu-kku fear pannura-nu find pannu. Why-nu figure pannala-na, never change pannida mudiyadhu.
Naan relate pannuren. Anxiety, depression, fear combo maari irukku-nu sound pannudhu. First step adha address pannuradhu. Maybe therapy-oda start pannu. L-theanine, magnesium supplements nice combo. Indha issues address pannina, less afraid, more social aagum, more friends irukkum, solo trips kooda pannalam. Fear pannumpo kooda try pannu. Mind pannura maari scary illa-nu kandupudippai.
Sometimes rest venum. Un vacation, un way. Tomorrow edhavadhu change pannu. Different route-la work-ku po. Unakku pidicha edhavadhu pannu, morning coffee, big sammich, tasty dinner un space-kku veliya. Naan pannalaam-nu remember pannuradhu-kku help pannum. Just keep taking care of yourself. You got this.
Crossroads-la irukka. Potential friends-a ghost pannuradhu, comfort zone-la irukkuradhu ippo un point-ku kondu vandhirukku. Which is ok! Aana maybe time to put yourself out there, paaru enna nadakkum-nu. Stressful, overwhelming, maybe disappointment, heartbreak kooda irukkum, aana indha risks open pannumpo, vulnerable-a irukkumpo edukkuradhu. Anxiety social interaction-la interfere pannudhu-nu feel pannina, adha address pannanum. Best of luck on your journey.
Depression logical illa. Brain-la chemical imbalance or some other physiological thing. Zero friends-nu sonna, adhu depressed-a irukka reason illa-na? Humans need connection. We NEED friends.
Um. Disconnected, isolated-a irukkuradhu absolutely logical reason depression-kku. Life pathi paper-la include pannina, life entirely great illa, first hand experience pannura maari, humans social creatures. Help-a reach out pannuradhu great step. Keep reaching, connect pannuradhu-kku enna irukku-nu resolve pannu.
Help somebody, maybe more than one person. Volunteer pannu. Some people animals or planet help pannuradhu prefer pannuranga. Purpose find pannuradhu-kku keep trying, patience vachukko.
Naan same maari irukken. Days off-la home-la irukka love pannuren. Still, fresh air-kku veliya konjam time spend pannuradhu really help pannum, even if “go out” person illa-na. Own company enjoy pannina, content feel pannina, adhu wrong illa. Healthy connections maintain pannu, people who matter. Connecting feel pannumpo, invite-kku once in a while yes solluradhu nice-a irukkum.
Clinically depressed-a irukkalaam-nu consider pannirukka? Medication, therapy venum-nu.
This is me. Avoidant personality disorder irukku-nu find panninen, adhu en issue. Yourself understand pannuradhu-kku therapy consider pannu.
Right there with you, bud. Depression pathi confused-a irukkuradhu ok. Outside factors creep pannum without realizing. One moment overwhelmed-a, months, years kooda aagum. Past-la someone trust break pannirukkanum or disappointed pannirukkanum. Without realizing shelter pannirukka. Amazing therapist find pannu, trigger(s) find pannuradhu-kku help pannum. Logically reason illa-nu think pannalum, reason illa-nu mean pannadhu. Please take care of yourself 💜
Idhu before paathirukken. Perfect healthy life-kku strive pannuravanga boring robots-a aaguranga. People-oda bars-ku po. Adventure buddies find pannu, new towns-ku po. Walk around. Konjam tipsy aagu. People watching pannu. Dispensary-ku po. Common interests find pannu, adha pannu. Be silly. Who cares. Humans social creatures. Go be social.
Going out stressful, aana good kind of stress, workout pannura stress maari. Regularly workout pannina mindset already irukku, just life-la another part-la apply pannu. Challenge-a enjoy pannu, little gains enjoy pannu.
Physical-a edhavadhu pannuradhu help pannudhu, building something pannuradhu satisfaction. Crafts, house or car-la minor things fix pannu try pannu. Free time, YouTube, tenacity-oda whole lot pannalaam. Afterwards surprisingly proud feel pannuva.
This is all you need to hear - Jesus un life-la venum!
[removed]
Paper-la good-a irukkuradhu = airplane mode-la life vaazhuradhu. Veliya po, weekends-la travel pannu, new hobbies sign up pannu, existing mindset challenge pannu, new outcomes, possibilities accept pannu.
No way out unless people offers-a accept pannu or events-ku po. Inside ellam time sit pannitu why indha maari feel pannuren-nu wonder pannida koodadhu. Adhu dhaan reason. First couple times veliya poga anxious feel pannum, aana few hours try pannu, overwhelming aana excuse sollitu leave pannu. Indha first steps. Therapy venam, same thing “therapist” way-la solluvanga.
Cortisol levels, vitamin D check pannu. Life sometimes just is. Great-a accomplish pannala, hamster wheel-la irukka, next thing or nothing wait pannura. Spark of joy find pannuradhu-kku fight pannadha. Evening walks help pannum. Favorite song car-la windows down pannitu kelu. Beautiful sunset. Deep belly laugh. Small things glimpse kodukkum, you’re still in there… just not fully rn.
Solo adventures start pannu. New or cool thrift store-ku one Saturday po. Takeout vangitu. Cemetery explore pannu. Routine change pannum, mind ball rolling pannum, stuck aagama irukkum. Cheers.
Life-la stuff irukkanum. Next vacation Nepal-ku po, Annapurna circuit trek pannu.
Biologically social-a wired-a irukkom. Social circles need pannuvom, benefit pannuvom. Quality of relationships happiness, health, longevity-kku key factor. Keep going, aana people find pannuradhu-kku time spare pannu.
Depression sometimes anger at the self. Yourself pathi angry-a irukkura things irukka?
Drugs or alcohol try pannirukka? Exactly what you need aagum.
Dying pathi think pannuradhu concerning. Doctor-a soon paakkalaama? Depressed-a irukka medical condition, not your fault, nearsighted or diabetes maari. Thinking-a distort pannum, irrational things sense pannum. Please physician or therapist soon paaru.
Burning Man-ku po.
Lreuteri yogurt look up pannu. Oxytocin vangitu.
Idhu ellarukkum nadakkum, just think pannadha.
Holy fuck shit people, NUMBER ONE! Thyroid check pannu, blood tests pannu! Symptoms look up pannu, appuram thyroid check pannanum! Simple blood test! Freak out pannuradhu munna idha check pannu... please love you! Been there!
Fucking plane ticket vangu.
Logic feelings illa.
Paper-la life great-nu solra, aana humans social creatures, isolate pannina natural instincts-a bring down pannum. Brain big sad feel pannum, no one reliable in your “hunting team” nu. Even introverts once in a while veliya po or internet-la connect pannuranga, one or two meaningful connections maintain pannuranga. Overwhelmed feel pannuradhu understand pannuren, first one person-ku reply pannu, polite 2h coffee or comfortable-a irukkura edhavadhu po. Good connection slowly form aagum, rush pannida venam, weekly veliya poga venam, 1-2 coffees chill people-oda, even from work, or solo adventures po, automatically someone-oda interact pannuva, another city-ku tourist-a po or own city-la tourist-a pretend pannu. Long-a irukku, aana something take away pannu-nu hope pannuren! Best regards!
Just mate venum. Simple.
I hear ya. Paper-la naan good, aana who decided what’s on the paper? Society fit pannuradhu-kku certain way-la told/raised pannirukkom, this and that pannina everything great-nu. So advice follow pannurom, someone else’s “paper” follow pannurom, why work pannala-nu wonder pannurom. Paper-la too reliant, trusting aagirukkom. Paper-a rewrite pannu for yourself. Others advice-a try pannadha enough pannita. Deep breath edu, idhu un life, un rules-la happiness-kku play pannu, not someone else’s. Yourself-a advice kekka venam, yourself already everything theriyum. Choices finally yours, adhu always better feel pannum.
Depression internet, Reddit-la time spend pannuradhu-nala, social-a irukkuradhu illa-nala.
Depression-kku logical reason illa-na, illogical reason irukkuma? Logically illogical problem solve pannalaama? Illogical solution eppadi irukkum? People-a life-la let pannuradhu-kku fear pannura, aana why? Life direction, value illa, just waiting to die-nu sonna. People-a let pannina worst thing enna nadakkum? Waiting to die vida worse-a? Illogical territory-la irukkom! Mental state illogical-a irundhalum, problem illa-nu mean pannadhu. Illogical problems-kku illogical solutions irukku. Karma, spirit, chi, mojo, soul... whatever you call it, what you believe in find pannu. Illogical power things-a drive pannum, otherwise sense pannadhu. Honest-a irukkuradhu extremely difficult. “Voodoo” nu dismiss pannuradhu easy, aana yourself superstitious-a believe pannuradhu hard. Or, pills/therapists venum. What do I know?
Why people-a life-la let pannuradhu-kku fear pannura? Deep fear of rejection irukka? Arms length-la keep pannina no one truly reject pannida mudiyadhu, real you-theriyadhu-nu?
Logical reason depression-kku irundha, you’re not depressed. Circumstances-kku reaction pannura. Circumstances dictate pannuradha vida worse feel pannina (logical reason illa), then you’re depressed, help seek pannu! Edit: Same multiple times irukku, depression relapses normal. Thinking-a defeat pannida mudiyadhu-nu know pannuradhu important. Part of being human, alive, accept pannanum. Okay to go through this. Suffering unique illa-nu realize pannuradhu help pannidhu, many people before come out pannirukanga, so possible, statistically naan like everyone else. Action venum. Dieting maari, one healthy meal pannina improve pannadhu, action over time venum. Hard part, aana better aagum-nu believe pannuradhu consistency-kku only way. Alone poga venam, friends-kku what’s up-nu sollu, stigma scary monster poidum, willpower illa-na support kedaikkum. Meds, church, parties, friends, volunteer work, alcohol (not too much) pannu, get out there. Months apparam thoughts, feelings poidum. Not feel depressed pannuradhu-kku only way not think it. Fill your mind with other things, no space to think it. Time edukkum. Relapse pannuva, aana what to do theriyum! Depression suck. You can do it!
Paper-la life great illa. Time-a gold-kku trade pannuradhu part of life, not all of life. Health-kku time trade pannuradhu part of life, not all of life. Others enna think pannuranga-nu worry pannuradhu low self-esteem, confidence, self-belief kaattum. Nature pathi mention pannala. Spirituality (not religion) pathi mention pannala. Creative-a edhavadhu mention pannala. Limited or non-existent social life okay, plenty souls alone good company. Aana un case maari illa. Traveling-kkum same, not all need or desire. Modern man very little theriyum. Suggestions system, society-kku okay, aana insane system, suggestions insane-a palatable pannum. Spiritual malaise-nala suffer pannura. Spiritual beings, intellect dominate pannudhu, environment-kku constantly overwhelmed, reacting. Soul feed pannuradhu forget pannuradhu easy, robot-a live pannuradhu. Machine maari, “think” pannuradhu pannurom. Zoom out pannina, thinking or reacting? Autopilot maari? Work-eat-lift-sleep. Unfulfilling-nu wonder pannura? Money, health answers illa-nu realize pannuradhu good. Part of it, aana much missing. Nothing better aagum until idhu understood. Unwell-a irundhappo, older gentleman healer advice sonnaru: Last time barefoot on ground eppo? Campfire paathu stars paathadhu eppo? (Nature) Last time loved one-oda dance pannadhu eppo? Inspired feel pannadhu eppo? Created anything (writing, drawing, building) eppo? How you answered, prescription kodutharu: Time find pannu, one month apparam how you feel report pannu. Soul feed pannu, inward paaru. Waking up pannura-nu happy. What a journey you’re about to embark on.
Professional-a talk pannu, isolation deal pannuradhu learn pannu. Fairly easy process, change pannanum-nu WANT pannanum. Best of luck!
Therapy or first impression therapist meet up try pannu, diagnose pannura therapist. Helped me a lot, depressed-nu find panninen, therapy start panninen, helped a lot. Others mention pannura things try pannalaam, aana long run-la help pannadhu. Therapist visit pannuradhu shame illa, bad feel pannakoodadhu.
No logical reason-nu claim pannura, aana fundamental human experience lack pannura-nu claim pannura. Social lives necessity illa-nu people think pannuradhu stop pannanum. Survive pannuradhu-kku venam, aana live pannuradhu-kku venum. Life meaning illa, yourself-a robot maari treat pannura. Social lives, many things, machinery-lendhu set apart pannum. Humans chemical creatures, chemical imbalances depression cause pannum.
Sleep eppadi? Apnea irukka check pannu. Serious-a solluren. Bad sleep depression-kku culprit aagum.
Different person-a change pannanum. Different things pannanum.
Depression illness. Logic illa, reasons venam. Not your fault! Mental health professional-a talk pannu, find pannuradhu-kku help kekku if too hard. Literally new chance for life kedaikkum!
Brother, specialist paathirukka? Depression quietly work pannum, no taste or desire pannuradhu-nu believe pannum. Short trip edu, far kooda venam. Near places search pannu, something new kandupudippai. Big changes pannadha, small ones pannu. Small actions brain work pannura way change pannum. Social life pathi questions anxious aagadha, explanations owe pannadha. Generic answer choose pannu, adha use pannu. Exercise continue pannu, water kudi, specialist paaru. Small changes pannadha. Long battle, aana you’ll make it through.
No problem, job un life. Everything company predict pannura maari nadakkudhu. Better this way, vacation pesky venam, anyway nothing pannala. Work pannuradhu better, no longer work pannida mudiyala vara.
Social isolation slowly rot pannudhu. Stand on your own two feet good, aana good partner, great friends, family beat pannadhu. No drink, no drugs-nu sonna. Moderation-la konjam live pannu.
Drugs try pannirukka? Nothing hard, just lsd or shrooms maari?
Therapist paaru, social anxiety pathi? Alone irukkuradhu easier-nu irundha, talking to others laborious-nu feel pannura maari. Work-la what to tell people-nu stressing great example. Social isolation relate pannuren, adhu dangerous depression-kku enough. Biological need social fulfillment-kku, find pannanum. Uncomfortable changes open pannina, life down the road easier aagum. Concessions, comfortable-a change pannanum, depression biological signal, what we’re doing not working for our needs.
Yeah, paper-la everything “right” irundhalum loneliness hard hit pannum. Isolation loop-a aagum, break pannuradhu scary, aana one small reply or hangout shift pannum. Not broken, just stuck.
Anxiety drugs-la irukken, depression, anxiety-kku massively help pannidhu. Life upside down best-a aachu, still socialize pannala!!! Personal reasons-nala, exhaustion illa. Driving test pass panninen, plane-la abroad poinen!! Panic attack, emotional weight illama.
First paragraph lie-nu theriyum. Life paper-la great-nu sonna, job, money, health, etc. Aana second paragraph paathen, “let me guess no gf? No friends?” Aana adhukku apparam read panninen, ya lol. No social life, no partner... Life paper-la great eppadi? No reason to be depressed-nu sonna, basic things mention pannura. Food, water, money, good health irukku. And??? Happiness-kku responsible only indha things-a? No lol. Why depressed-nu exact-a theriyum. Work on it.
Volunteer aagu. Social contact without pressure kedaikkum. Lack of social contact probably depression-kku cause. Food bank-la volunteer pannuren, en depression-kku great deal help pannidhu.
Diet check pannu. Bad gut health directly depression-kku related. Seed oils-a plague maari avoid pannu. Meditation pick pannu. 10-15 minutes a day enough. Long term project.
Bicycle vangu, road hit pannu - mental therapy. Riding groups-la great people meet pannuva. Cycling nerd-a irukken, aana physically, mentally wonders pannum.
Pet venum!
Depression suffer pannuren, sometimes just hit pannudhu. Legitimate mental condition, bad something happen venam manifest pannuradhu-kku. Chronic pain irukkuravanga comfortable position-la irundhalum manifest pannum. PTSD irukkuravanga nice calming quiet atmosphere-la symptoms manifest pannum. “What could you possibly be depressed about?” nu solluradhu bothers pannudhu. Sad-a irukka venam depression experience pannuradhu-kku.
No logical reason-nu sollura, aana literally ten reasons list pannita. Work pannu bud, no one indha maari vaazhndhu happy aaguradhu illa.
Hey OP, Last year naan un shoes-la irundhen, loving wife, community of friends irundhalum. Boast pannala, depression discriminate pannadhu-nu solluren. En case-la extremely internal, thoughts manifest pannura way, internal lies/truths(falsehoods) believe pannuren. Beyond “just think positive!” Brain does what it does well, constant automatic negative thoughts (ANTs) eventually brain-a train pannidhu, ANTs easier happen pannum. Un life theriyala, aana what worked for me: 1. Good therapist-oda talk therapy. Commit pannu, cognitive behavioral therapy, acceptance based therapy help pannidhu. 2. Lexapro rough time-la help pannidhu (suicidal thoughts freaked me out, worse pannidhu). Catch all illa, talk therapy-oda conjunction-la helper. 3. Community-la force pannu. HOA’s pond-la volunteer pannuren, cleaning pannuren. Magic the gathering commander Sundays local game shop-la, Daggerheart campaign side-la run pannuren. Ellam pannanum venam, something new learn pannuradhu, “somewhere to be” help pannum. 4. Alone illa. Depression tough. Worst days forever stuck aagadhu. Some days good, others suck. Accept pannu, grace on yourself vachukko. You’ll be ok. Signed, some internet stranger who cares.
Feel you. Social life non-existent, family-oda konjam talk pannuren. Married, aana single maari. Facebook, Twitter (screw Elon, always Twitter to me), other “social media” social-a count pannadhu. Good job field-la, finally found, aana meh, nothing excites anymore. Day rinse and repeat, over and over. Work all day, home vandha billion things do pannanum, never ends. Life indha maari dhaana? Forever indha maari. Travel, anything pannu? Kids, wife, house decide panninen, fair money pannuren, aana extra stuff-nala broken. Death looking forward pannuren, harm pannala (time illa bullshit-kku), aana last breath relief-nu think pannuren. Here we go again, smile podu, talk pannanuma-nu illa... over and over... Weekend-la drink pannuren, life-lendhu only relief.
Two types of people: Happiness making themselves happy, others happy pannuradhu-kku find pannuranga. Overlap irukku, aana yourself-a live pannuradhu meaning illa-na, service provide pannu, pet shelters, soup kitchens, hospital volunteer work, social contact-oda side job. Yourself-a live pannuradhu meaningful-na, service to yourself: Class skill set expand pannu, house or yard improve pannu project. Meaning, legacy overlooked goals, grow up pannumpo, trial and error, self-discovery, different situations-la “learning about ourselves” what experiences most satisfaction kodukkum-nu paakkuradhu.
Team sports friends make pannuradhu-kku best ways, “comfort” zone-lendhu veliya varadhu, fun pannuradhu. Specific sport like pannina, local amateur teams/leagues, pickup games join pannu.
Non-profit believe pannuradhu join pannu. Others help pannuva, coworkers-la friends find pannuva.
Human beings social animals. Social interaction human need feel alive, food, water need maari. Perfectly logical reasons depression-kku irukku. Mental health care-la tools irukku, therapist access pannu, social-a learn pannuradhu-kku help pannum. We believe in you!
History World War 3-kku edge pannudhu, pax americana end, looming environmental collapse. Sooner or later plenty to get involved, US domestic police force Gestapo tactics-kku used aagum.
Social connections important. Paper-la adhu dhaan missing.
Random people-oda best stories kekku, group-la kooda work pannum. Story illa-na, where/how manifest pannuradhu-nu advice kekku. Curious-a irukkuradhu, enthusiasm (if you feel) express pannuradhu friends make pannuradhu-kku enough. Rudderless sucks. Work pannala-na, favorite thing to complain about kekku, listen pannu, interest without judgement kaattu, agree pannu if you do. Amsterdam-ku travel pannu, highly rated hostel downtown-la stay pannu, bunch of beers (NA beers for you) vangu, common area-la sit pannu, drink pannu, share pannu. Asked-a “passion hunting” nu sollu, avanunga passion pathi kekku. Broken heart-a fantastically silly weekend-la mend panninen. Open-a irundha, psychedelic assisted psychotherapy pathi podcasts kelu (ep. 66 Tim Ferriss Show), or Blocks by Neal Brennan Netflix-la paaru. Partake pannanuma venam, healing simple-nu IDEA spark some hope momentum pannum.
Silver bullet “tinsy better feel pannuren no matter what” videoclip: The Man Who Planted Trees.
Good church find pannu! Baptist or Presbyterian. Welcome pannuvanga, probably feed pannuvanga! Introvert aana kooda worth it.
Doctor paaru. Outside-la en life amazing. Aana despondent or dissociating most of the time. 25 vara talk pannala. Several medication trials panninen, what worked find panninen, 36-la kooda grace kodukkanum, aana talk pannuradhu, meds try pannuradhu shame illa, science help pannuradhu-kku irukku.
Welcome to life. Rock bottom hit pannala-na change pannida mudiyadhu. People-a let pannuradhu-kku fear pannura, too much care pannura. Hell-a go through pannirukkaravanga perspective vachukuranga, so meeting people, friends make pannuradhu no big deal. Life easy, comfortable-na change pannuradhu-kku motivation irukkadhu. Real answer hard, uncomfortable things will-oda pannu. Feel it. Uncomfortable hard things pannuradhu indha maari turn pannum. Depression something missing-nu feel pannura. Social life add pannina solve pannadhu, aana important. People life-kku too much meaning kodukkuranga, too seriously edukkuranga, greater meaning or cause find pannala-na depressed aaguranga. Best you can do human needs meet pannuradhu: 1. Work/job/hobby proud feel pannuradhu. 2. Care pannura, care pannuravanga life-la vachukko. 3. People flake pannumpo, let down pannumpo too much weight podadha. 4. Actively hurt pannuravanga illa-na forgive pannu. Angry-a irukkuradhu energy waste. 5. Health maintain pannu, older-a complications avoid pannu. Extra things like bucket lists, goals, religion, more education add pannalaam if you want. Reality, everything you need to be happy now irukku. Friends irundhalum illa-na, particular thing irundhalum illa-na. Only thing holding back current belief something missing. Luxury of today side effect, too much free time history-la never irundhirukku.
Isolation-a embrace pannu, deeper drive pannu. Positive meaning reassign pannu... mind deeper level-la yourself know pannuradhu-kku invite pannudhu. Meditate pannu. Everything you need within you. Mumbo jumbo maari irukkum, aana meditation anxiety, depression-lendhu pull pannidhu. Guided meditations YouTube-la great to start. Practice, so little each day infrequent perfect meditation vida better.
Hard time ippo-nu sound pannudhu. Reaching out pannuradhu-kku good, counseling or professional help seek pannu, external support establish pannu, yourself better understand pannu, other parts guide pannu. Feelings pathi talk pannuradhu itself-la help pannum. Antidepressant medication avoid pannuradhu good idea, counseling or psych-oda few sessions pannina apparam. Maslow’s hierarchy of needs paaru. Realms need pannuvom, world-la at home feel pannuradhu-kku. Safety, psychological needs good job, health-oda establish pannita, aana social life not working now-nu identified. Hobby physical community-oda great way new people meet pannuradhu, new skills learn pannuradhu. Fit-a irukka, bouldering, rock climbing, team sport, weekend running club/meet up nearby try pannu. Other interests local communities-la involve aagu, physical, creative, political, volunteer for those doing it tough or any other. Community-la involve pannuradhu joy, purpose, connection kondu varum. Brain dumping, journaling overwhelmed or anxious feel pannumpo relief pannum, talk therapies guide pannum. Self-compassion, non-judgemental self-talk practice pannuradhu good space. Biopsychosocial model depression experiences understand pannuradhu tangible needs/actions/realms-la ground pannum, where we are, why-nu better sense pannum. Great part, people reach out pannuranga. Hard time socially irukkuravangalukku really special, lifeline aagum, care pannuranga, who and how you are-nu interested. Konjam therinja, hard time replying to messages-nu sollu, or call pannu, coffee or food organize pannu. Pay pannalaam if you like! Others reaching out likable-nu kaattudhu, social stuff-kku really help pannum. Worth investing effort, money (therapy or interests explore pannuradhu) pannuradhu-kku. Personal project start pannuradhu-kku capable!
Good job sharing, brave of you. Keep it up.
Testosterone levels check pannu.
Church poga? Illa-na, church locate pannu. Hole fill pannuradhu-kku Jesus dhaan. Jesus what we need provide pannuva.
Depression body’s way of shocking the mind, other solutions try pannuradhu-kku force pannudhu. Environment-la something wrong, body knows, conscious mind progressing-lendhu block pannudhu. Depression-la podum until sort out pannura. Temporary long separation from family ippo experience pannuren. Mind theriyum they’re coming back, aana body freaking out, bad feel pannudhu. What you know you need to do start pannu. Chatgpt maari (personally Grok.com use pannuren) talk pannu, CBT Counsellor role edukkum-nu sollu. Quick freebie, work pannala-na human venum. Tiny tiny things first pannu. Little steps right direction-la, increase pannu. House maintenance fam away irukkumpo, 5-10 minutes work commit pannuren, chip away pannuren. Un case-la, someone-oda once a week time spend pannu, personal message once a week send pannu. Old people befriend pannuradhu-kku volunteer try pannu. Controlled environment-la one hour a week sit pannu, company appreciate pannuvanga, social exercise pannalaam. Everyone social-a irukkanum-nu illa. Not particularly social, aana girl find panninen (be the man your dream girl would marry), variety hobbies enjoy pannuren. Niche contexts-la society-kku draw pannudhu. Avoid pannuren, aana hobby love, like-minded people connect pannuradhu drive pannudhu. Hope any of that helps.
Same. Long time lonely, people what I did or plans enna-nu kekkumpo lie solluren.
Sorry. Depression first vandhappo enna maari irundhuchu. Later social anxiety vandhuchu. Rough. Depression most people think pannura maari illa. Lack of appetite, sleep, stress and more. Many people you know similar problem irukku-nu therinjukko. Good shrink paaru. Horseback riding hobby pick panninen. Ironically, psychiatrist or medication vida help pannidhu, cheaper-um. Exercise, animal comfort, fresh air, casual group of people hang out pannalam or pannama irukkalaam. Really great for me. Best of luck. Work-ku back poga, “mostly home-la irundhen, things take care panninen, chilled” nu sollu. Friday night home poga dread panninen, lonely aagum-nu theriyum. Good things coming your way-nu full faith.
Chote, What you are going through absolutely normal. Phase of life-la socialize pannanuma-nu illa, aana lonely, depressed feel pannurom. Good news, otherwise active (work, workout etc.). Socializing focus-lendhu fun stuff pannuradhu-kku pivot pannu... martial art, music, dance or any activity enjoy pannu. Two things pannum: socializing pressure, anxiety remove pannum, enjoy pannura activity pannuradhu-kku poga. Social circle grow pannum without trying. Each hobby life cycle irukku, bigger events, tournaments, gathering etc. Fun activity/hobby-la partake pannuradhu door of possibilities open pannum. Overthink pannadha, doing great champion, go out and live your life 🤝
Still in college, aana social life sentiments relate pannuren :'>
Exact same way feel pannuren. Depression ultimately good things sabotage pannidhu, really good job maari. Generous PTO job, medical leave offer pannanga, turn down panninen, weeks later quit panninen. Kicking myself, not bad job. PTSD from serious car accident, almost died. Take care of yourself. Hard.
Alexithymia much, it seems. Physical contact meaningful emotional connection communication-kku need-nu find panninen, tango learn panninen, psychedelics immensely help pannidhu. Best of luck.
“It’s the difficult roads that leads us to beautiful destinations.” Summer-la friends paakka illa. Someone strangers-a party-kku invite pannaru, I will come-nu solliten. No fun with friends-nu complain pannitu invites reject pannina, hypocrite. Against my values, self-destructive. Isolation over connections choose pannuren. Decide pannanum. Connections push pannura-nu false temporary comfort long term suffering-kku lead pannuma, or social anxiety, CPTSD-oda responsibility for happiness take pannuva?
Depression chemical imbalance aagum, prescription venum. Lot of people think pannura maari, therapy-la fix pannida mudiyadhu.
No reason to be depressed-nu claim pannura, aana no friends-nu sollura. Textbook case depression eppadi varudhu, solutions straightforward aagum.
Valuable things workspace veliya pannu. Social organization join pannu. Donate pannu, hospital-la ill people support pannu. Life good, aana truly satisfied feel pannala. Job, home, physical abilities illadhavanga paaru, life-kku meaning find pannuva. New people, new communities find pannuva, another person aaguva.
Depression usually good reason irukka-nu kekkadhu. Happiest seeming people silently most hurt. Good base irukku. Workout, good job, no drink, no smoke. Everything change pannum-nu theriyala. Divorce apparam, work poga, home vandhu cry pannuren. Aana one day enough-nu decide panninen. Soulmate find pannuren, first marriage-la denied family start pannuren. Ippo beautiful wonderful wife, nearly one year old son-oda married. Started one day, any day maari. One message. One match. Everything changed. Frowned upon here, aana okay. Own experience-lendhu solren. Something higher than us irukku. People many things call pannuranga, aana God-nu therinjukitten. God wife-a needed time-la sent pannaru. Battles win pannaru. His love only He can show pannura ways-la kaattinaru. Time koduthu, something more than what meets the eye open pannina, what can happen-nu surprised aaguva.
Mechanical problem maari paaru. Some brains endorphins or whatever same level produce pannala. Logical reasons or life pathi irukka venam.
Brain mainframe computer, people enough respect kodukkala. Most powerful organ in body. Primary function survival. Hypothermic situation-la stuck aana, brain survive pannadha organ-a shut down pannum.
Gut health check pannu.
Gym po brother. Christ find pannu.
Church life unakku good.
Drinking, smoking, drugs start pannu.
No logical reason. Depression-nu solluradhu. Doctor talk pannina fix pannalaam. Most people-kku easy.
6 weeks medication trial pannuradhu scary, worse pannum, psychologically fuck up pannum-nu feel pannuren. Happiness illa, aana give up pannura maari bad illa. Further imbalance rash decision pannum, adhu point-ku pogala. “Safe” hell-la irukken.
Depression many forms irukku, sometimes palpable cause irukku (lucky case, issue point out pannalaam, what needs change theriyum), sometimes illa. Feel pannura maari sorry. Seek help pannu, why interact, befriend pannuradhu hassle-nu find pannu, non-work related time spend pannuradhu prospect-oda.
Activity-based friendships low stress way social-a irukkuradhu. Deeper friendships over time build pannalaam if you want. Easy options pickleball, movies maari.
Honestly, slept-nu solluren. Depression-sleep part leave pannuren, aana “sleep” relatable, enjoyable way vacation spend pannuradhu-nu most people think pannuvanga.
Beautifully said! “Everything looks good on paper” trap depression hardest parts, struggling-kku guilty feel pannum. Small steps approach brilliant. Add pannuren: Phone-la one text each day respond pannuradhu-kku remind pannu. “5-minute rule” try pannu, just 5 minutes social interaction commit pannu (quick coffee order conversation-oda). Gym already poga, group class try pannu, people around irukkuradhu initiate pannanuma venam. Vacation pathi kekkuravangalukku, “rest, recharge focus panninen” nu sollu, honest, positive. Self-awareness irukku, physical health take care pannura. That’s not nothing, foundation. Social muscle gentle, consistent training venum, any other skill maari. You’ve got this.
ChatGPT popular aana apparam “you’re not broken” adhigama solluranga, illa?
Magnesium-um.
Deficit one or several of above-nu first thought.
Thyroid levels-um.
Magical imbalance in brain-nu claim pannuradhu incorrect, dangerous misinformation.
Friends vangu, exercise pannu, job switch pannu. 80% chance success.
Depressing world-la vaazhurom, work poitu, home vandhu couch-la lay pannina magically happy aagiduvom-nu assume pannuranga. Brain chemistry blame pannuranga. Nah brah.
Both top two leading causes depression-kku, top three sedentary lifestyle add pannu. OP wonders why depressed.
Love this comment, agree ♥️ Blessings and love to OP.
Nihilistic acceptance pathi kelvi pattirukken. Plan-la more add pannalaam tho lol.
Church-la welcome illa-nu feel pannuren.
Depression med initially bring down pannum, aana later lift pannum-nu friend experience pannaru. Worse aana meds stop pannu, safe hell-ku return pannuva. Work pannina… hell-lendhu veliya varuva. Medical expert illa, physics student. Medical experts advice better than random Reddit.
No! Medicine try pannu. Personality change pannum-nu try pannala, aana pannadhu. Ippo medication illama life worth illa-nu feel pannuren.
Same. Naps love pannuren-nu talk pannuren. Secretly, life awake spend pannanumnu wish pannuren.
Full thyroid panel. Unexplained anxiety, depression (other physical symptoms-oda), thyroid-nu kandupudichen.
Goal more profit, resource allocation, extraction points. More time working, more profit. Everything else distraction. Every company family, family venam, job, co-workers irukku.
Apostolic church pona? Apostolic church oneness of God believe pannudhu. 1st century church 21st century-la. Church locator link irukku, close church search pannu. Jesus loves you, naanum.
Insurance vandha consider pannuren. Trial part skip pannina hop right on pannuven.

body
Enakku anxiety irukku ippo, depression illa, vayasu aana apparam vandhadhu.
Naan oru eReader (Kobo) vanginen -> books padikka start panninen -> Michael Easter-oda The Comfort Crisis padichen, discomfort-oda comfortable-a irukka kathukitten -> exercise pannuradhu konjam easy aachu -> general-a konjam better feel panninen -> meetups-uku poitu new people-a meet panninen -> cool people-a meet panninen -> avanunga ennai events-uku invite pannanga -> world-a explore panninen, confidence vandhadhu, anxiety/depression konjam kammi aachu -> ipdi pogudhu.
Counselling, lifestyle changes, depression vandhu pogudhu-nu accept pannuradhu.
Shitty job-a quit panninen.
Poverty-la illadhadhu.
Depression pohadhu, aana manage pannuradhu kathukitten. Lifelong fight, low points irukku, aana enna work pannudhu, enna pannadhu-nu kathukitten. Bad days irukku, aana visualization techniques help pannudhu—emotions-a tide maari paaru, naan rock maari irukkanum, fight pannama just let it flow.
Daily routine structure koduthu, purpose koduthu. Stick pannuradhu thaan mukkiyam.
Drinking quit panninen, schedule-a full panninen. Depression pathi think pannuradhu-kku time illa. Burnout vandhalum, small habits incorporate pannuradhu help pannudhu. Loved ones-oda time spend pannu, small victories add pannum.
Drinking stop panninen, alcoholism pathi open-a pesinen.
Wellbutrin. Therapy panninen, aana meds thaan game-changer. Years munnala start pannirundha better irundhirukkum.
Hobbies-lerndhu friendships build panninen.
Sleep apnea diagnosis vandhadhu, CPAP night-la use pannuradhu depression-a almost poakka vechudhu. SSRIs illama rare-a depression varudhu.
East Africa-uku move panninen, teaching panninen, off-grid community-la. Depression pochu, lightbulb on aana maari.
Medication, therapy, decent friends, plus en cat.
Depression 70% kammi aachu. Emotions-a sit pannuradhu, paakuradhu, unravel pannuradhu work pannudhu.
Magic mushrooms small dose enna lift pannidhu, depression-oda underwater irundhadhu clear-a therinjidhu. Perspective shift pannidhu.
Friends enna force pannanga, even when I rejected them.
New career, diet, exercise.
Drug abuse reset pannidhu, aana recommend pannala.
Antidepressants.
Actually ADHD irundhadhu.
Years of therapy, ketamine treatments, major breakthroughs.
Prozac, single-a irukkuradhu, self-support pannuradhu.
Pay-ila significant increase.
Work on myself, lifestyle changes: meditation, cardio, sunlight, grounding, thoughts-a believe pannadha, less alcohol, less caffeine, better sleep, loved ones-oda quality time, toxic people-a unfollow pannuradhu, nature-la time, gratitude, less screen time, self-kindness, psychedelics reset pannidhu.
5HTP depression slump-lerndhu eduthudhu, hormone levels fix pannuradhu help pannudhu.
Suicide courage illa-nu realize pannadhu, thoughts stop aachu.
Psilocybin mushrooms, meditation during trip, negativity clear pannidhu.
Depression “healed” aagum-nu foreign concept. Always irukkum, meds-oda manage pannuren.
Exercise, sunshine, LSD.
Unakku theriyum, naan paakkuren.
TMS, medication, routine, small victories. Meds lifelong irukkum, aana stable-a irukken.
Ketamine, chronic depression-a change pannidhu. Doctor care-la recommend pannuren.
Magic mushrooms, accountability eduthu, purpose focus pannidhu.
Exercise.
Vitamin D, social life improve pannuradhu, therapy—depression frequency, depth kammi aachu.
Massive vitamin D, intensive therapy.
CPAP.
Shrooms, serious-a illa.
Brain retrain panninen. One productive thing daily, negative cycle interrupt panninen. Small victories celebrate pannuradhu outlook-a change pannidhu.
Fiancée self-harm paathutta, adhu enna change pannidhu. Bad-a focus pannama good-a paakka start panninen.
Gym daily, learning new stuff, cooking, smoothies—busy-a irukkuradhu depression-a vechudhu.
Magic mushrooms.
Shrooms one night depression-a cure pannidhu. Earth-oda connected feel panninen, anxiety pochu.
Bipolar, medication help pannudhu.
Dog adopt panninen, daily walks, running—brain good feel pannudhu.
Job-uku poitu socializing panninen, depression kammi aachu.
Ketamine.
Psychedelics, DBT, accept pannuradhu.
Divorce.
Self-a first pannuradhu quick-a fix pannidhu.
Untreated ADHD irundhadhu.
Husband-a vittu poitten, ippo happy.
Time, hormonal birth control illama, sleep, diet, exercise, kind people-oda irukkuradhu, social media limit pannuradhu.
Meds stop panninen, real problem realize panninen, breakup panninen.
IV Ketamine life-a save pannidhu.
Medication, lifestyle changes, symptoms-a early nip pannuren.
Blood test-la Vit D, B12 low irundhadhu. B12 shots, Vit D script depression-a poakka vechudhu.
Trans girl-aanu, HRT 2 years, hormonal transition depression-a kammi pannidhu.
Anxiety-nala depression vandhadhu, ADHD diagnosis, meds game-changer.
Bipolar disorder irundhadhu, adhu-kku treat panninen.
Right amount of mushrooms, lifestyle changes, dog routine, responsibilities.
LSD.
Two trees-a bare hands-oda tear panninen, accomplishment depression-a kammi pannidhu.
Mushrooms, counselling, social outlets, exercise—work pannuradhu mukkiyam.
Ayahuasca, sister suicide apparam help pannidhu. Intense, aana life-changing.
Support network build pannuradhu, isolation kammi pannidhu.
Birth control stop panninen.
Ketamine therapy, life-a 180 pannidhu.
Happier music listen panninen, depression escape panninen.
Prozac, therapy, less stressful job.
Cat adopt panninen, sunny place-uku move panninen.
Meds, therapy.
Meds, psychoanalysis.
Medication, border collie, gym, toxic family-a cut panninen.
Transition.
Drugs.
Lamotrigine 150mg, life-changing.
Ketamine infusions, Stamford protocol, 4-6 infusions two weeks-la.
Daily walk, sunlight help pannidhu.
ADHD diagnosis, treatment.
ADHD treat pannuradhu, life enjoy pannuren.
Alcohol quit panninen, selfish-a irukkuradhu, toxic people-a cut panninen.
TMS, depression, psychosis cure pannidhu, remission-la irukken.
Zoloft, therapy, frontal lobe develop pannidhu.
Boss fired aachu, mental health improve pannidhu.
Birth control stop panninen.
Workout daily, Vitamin D, society sick-nu accept pannuradhu.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), underlying issues work panninen, PTSD program, therapy 6 years.
Social media cut pannuradhu, daily walk, sunlight, multivitamins, phone “Do not disturb” mode.
Old aana apparam anxiety pochu, retirement-a paakkuradhu work issues-a kammi pannidhu.
Depression major depressive disorder-a turn pannidhu.
Anxiety-lerndhu depression-uku flip pannidhu.
Depression anxiety-a replace pannidhu, stress vandhadhu.
The Comfort Crisis book helpful-a irukkum, list-uku add panninen.
Stimulus encounter pannuradhu, daily routine change pannuradhu.
eReader pathi think pannuren, Kobo ethukku choose pannina?
Depression comes and goes, life events trigger pannum.
Depression lifelong, recovering depressive-aanu, signs kathukitten, reality-a manage pannuren.
Stephen Coogan video, grandmother “cloud maari, pass aagum” sonnadhu help pannidhu.
Brain wired differently, medication, lifestyle changes help pannum.
Depression 30 years, eppo pogum?
Medication, routine, support person help pannum.
House-lerndhu veliya po, walk pannuradhu help pannidhu.
Community, exercise, self-reflection—bio-psycho-social balance.
Depression pogudha? Eppo?
CBT, meds, small wins celebrate pannuradhu, therapist change pannuradhu try pannu.
Shitty job quit panninen, mental health recover panninen, aana poor-a irukken.
Well-paying job-a welfare-uku swap pannuren, burnout, depression vandhadhu.
Job quit panninen, depression extent therinjidhu, miserable illa ippo.
Bad employer-a get lost sollu, therapy maari work pannidhu.
Call center job quit panninen, mental health improve pannidhu.
Poor-a irukken, aana suicidal thoughts illa, better feel pannuren.
Money illadha depression-a fix pannadhu, CBT, pills work pannadhu.
Financial struggles depression-a trigger pannidhu, money evil bitch.
Four digits bank account-la irundha, free therapy maari.
Money happiness vangadhu, aana basic needs meet pannina happy-a irukkum.
Money happiness vangadhu-nu sollu, aana poor-a irundha theriyum.
Poor-a irukkuradhu depression-a trigger pannum.
Homeless-a irukken, aana depression win pannadhu.
Material circumstances physical, mental well-being-oda connected.
“This too shall pass” depressive episode-la help pannudhu, triggers identify pannuren.
Chronic depression pogadhu, aana manage pannuren, hope irukku.
Routine stick pannuradhu tough, bed-lerndhu get up pannuradhu chore maari.
Low days-la routine stick pannuradhu eppadi?
Daily same feel pannuradhu depression-a trigger pannudhu.
No routine, sleep deprivation depression-a worse pannudhu.
ADHD, depression comorbid, routine build pannuradhu tough.
Busy-a irukkuradhu, girlfriend/wife vandhadhu depression-a kammi pannidhu.
Drinking quit panninen, house work pannuren, aana cycle break pannuradhu tough.
Breakup apparam sports leagues join panninen, socializing depression-a kammi pannidhu.
Alcohol quit panninen, sleep better, energy, no hangovers, depression pochu.
Drinking college-la start panninen, sober aana apparam depression pochu.
Wellbutrin life saver, aana trial and error panninen.
Wellbutrin numb pannidhu, emotions intense-a feel panninen.
Wellbutrin suicidal thoughts-a stop pannidhu, life saver.
Wellbutrin night and day difference, reborn feel pannuren.
Wellbutrin motivation koduthu, routine establish pannidhu.
Wellbutrin start panninen, same results expect pannuren.
Wellbutrin sweating pannudhu, aana life-a change pannidhu.
Wellbutrin normal emotions koduthu, PMDD-um manage pannudhu.
Wellbutrin work pannala, Prozac stabilize pannudhu.
Wellbutrin start panninen, happy to read results.
Not every med works for everyone, psychiatrist-oda discuss pannu.
Wellbutrin 10 years, stabilize pannidhu, therapy, exercise, routine.
Wellbutrin static-a kammi pannidhu, light switch maari.
Med stigma unreal, friend meds avoid pannuradhu issues create pannidhu.
Wellbutrin life-a save pannidhu, 20 hours sleep illama irukken.
Wellbutrin motivation koduthu, college quit panninen, recreational use stop panninen.
ADHD late diagnosis, burnout, overstimulation depression-a trigger pannidhu.
Autistic realize panninen, depression, anxiety logical reactions, self-acceptance help pannidhu.
Autism suspicion, meds work pannala, spectrum-la irukkum doubt.
Autism tools pathi sollu, meds work pannala doubt.
Life stressor, workforce drop pannuradhu help pannidhu.
Job change panninen, mental health improve pannidhu.
Solo time protect pannuren, social pressure avoid pannuren.
ADHD, naps, premade foods, meds, burnout avoid pannuren.
ADHD, dopamine issue, antidepressants work pannala.
Pandemic burnout, ketamine help pannidhu, dad hospice knock pannidhu.
Thanks for sharing.
ADHD diagnosis, burnout cause-a realize panninen.
ADHD diagnosis, self-forgiveness, magical breakthrough.
Therapists autism-a acknowledge pannala, burnout realize panninen.
Hobbies: board games, theatre, pub quizzes.
Sleep apnea: lean build, snore, tired always.
Michigan, New England roots.
East Africa lifestyle: good people, slow life, languages, travel.
Africa veil lift pannidhu, Ghana life-a save pannidhu.
Change of environment, kind people depression-a kammi pannidhu.
Sunny place, outlook change pannidhu depression-a kammi pannidhu.
Support group important, toxic people cut pannu, good ones value pannu.
Depression curing cat paakkanum.
Toxic people cut panninen, alone irundhadhu scary, aana new friends vandhachu.
Psychologist: “Assholes-oda irundha depression diagnosis pannuradhu tough.”
Toxic parents cut panninen, depression pochu.
Divorce panninen, first time depression illa.
World around me better aana, depression pochu.
Therapist: Depression or assholes around you?
Emotions acknowledge pannuradhu tough, productive-a pannuradhu eppadi?
Mushrooms combat veteran issues-a fix pannidhu, research pannu, guided-a pannu.
Mushrooms depression, suicidal thoughts-a fix pannidhu, TMS 6 months help pannidhu.
Mental state key, happy music, calm mindset help pannum.
Mushrooms meditation-a serious-a edutha, depression kammi aachu.
Low-stress activities suggest pannu, friend ghost pannuradhu tough.
Heroic dose phrase consult note-la use pannuren.
Mushrooms anorexia-a heal pannidhu, mentally, physically.
Meds motivation koduthu, self-care, effort mukkiyam.
ADHD depression-a trigger pannum, dual diagnosis.
ADHD diagnosis, depression pochu, anxiety kammi aachu.
Not cowardice, hope irukku, live pannuradhu desire irukku.
Different chemicals, different brains, shrooms work pannala, ibogaine, 5meo DMT work pannudhu.
Shrooms grow pannuradhu easy, spores legal.
Neuroplasticity, meditation, psilocybin depression-a kammi pannidhu.
TMS requirements lessen aachu, high success rate.
TMS life-changer, aana 16k bill depression koduthu.
Kids future pathi worry pannuradhu depression-a trigger pannudhu.
Kids pain-free life teach pannuradhu impossible, warmth teach pannu.
War, famine worry pannuradhu tough, strong mindset teach pannu.
Kids future pathi worry pannuradhu heart-a hurt pannudhu.
News cycle avoid pannu, family-a focus pannu, peace choose pannu.
Anxiety relationships-a destroy pannidhu, depression isolation pannudhu.
Crisis-la calm-a irukken, normal times-la depression vandhadhu.
Depression cycles shallow-a manage pannuren, victory.
Lifestyle changes: quit drinking, move, eat healthy, friends-oda time spend.
Depression comet maari, therapy, lifestyle changes orbit-a manage pannum.
Sports mask pannidhu, depression figure pannuradhu tough.
Existential depression breakdown, shrooms try pannuren, life chaos.
Anesthesia apparam reset feel panninen.
Somatic breathwork try pannuren.
TMS, Spravato work pannala, aana happy for your results.
Economy trash, job prospects low, depression worse pannudhu.
Housing costs depression-a trigger pannudhu, mortgage tough.
Trapped, stuck feel pannuradhu normal, mentally exhausting.
Cold place-la shower fast-a pannuren.
“Do whatever you need to do” advice help pannadhu.
Small steps mindset shift pannum, self-worth build pannum.
Wellbutrin seizure risk alcohol-oda, aana low risk try panninen.
Celexa slow-a wean panninen, doctor too quick pannuradhu avoid panninen.
Sunny place depression-a kammi pannudhu.
Africa volunteering, Mercy Ships pathi think pannuren.
Chef life high-stress, depression-a trigger pannidhu.
BOH stability chase panninen, quit panninen.
Ex-GF analogy perfect, depression-a articulate pannidhu.
Self-medication alcohol-oda, healthy mitigation kathukitten.
Born to fight, depression lifelong.
Shrooms not panacea, aana great tool.

body
Fine-a feel pannuren. Aana unmaiyila onnum feel pannala. Numb-a irukken, theriyama. Pudhusa irukku. Indifferent illa, situation pathi eppadi feel pannuren-nu theriyum. Negative-um illa, positive-um illa.
Emotion-oda absence. Sensation illa adhunala.
Just: quiet, too quiet. Aana adhu quiet-nu kooda theriyadhu. Onset aagiduchu, naan adhukulla irukken.
Tunnel vision. Bed-la irukken, illa bed-la irukka vendirukku. Energy theva padura vishayangalukku attention kodukkala, so face pannama irukken. Tunnel vision mostly basic needs-uku, occasional-a low energy distraction-uku, yenna already tired-a irukken.
Shower pannuradhu struggle. Hygiene maintain pannuradhu konjam naal tough.
Memory loss.
Hobbies illa. Anhedonia-nala ellame boring. TV-la enna paakka vendum-nu kooda theriyala, nothing sounds good. School mudichadhu, reading start pannanum-nu aasai, aana nothing sounds good.
Time blindness. Kadasi rendu vaarama bed-la irukken. Few days maari feel aachu. Energy illa, vera onnum pannamudiyala. Help ketkumbodhu, “No energy-nu enna sollu?” illa “Workout pannu” nnu solluranga. Numb, weak, days fly pannudhu, aana naan live pannala.
Irritability. Chinnadha vishayathukku romba upset aaguradhu, illa ellame annoy pannudhu, world against you maari feel pannudhu. Romba draining.
Gastrointestinal issues irukku, idhu enakku mattum thana?
Sad documentaries, videos, tragedies, crime pathi paakuren. Misery loves company-nu sollu, idhu abnormal-a irukkum.
Eating pathi care pannala, sleep illa illa too much sleep, exercise illa, ruminating thoughts, joy illa, unhealthy habits, isolation, angry, bitterness, jealousy, loneliness, self-hate, ellarum ennai hate pannuranga-nu feel, silence (TV, radio off), own world-la live pannuradhu, teeth clamp pannuradhu, grinding, back aches, heart palpitations, ellaraiyum hate pannuradhu, chores miss pannuradhu, deep sadness, self-sabotage, self-harm, wash pannala, doctor/dental appointments skip pannuradhu, memory loss, concentration illa, focus illa, films/TV paakumbodhu thoughts distract pannudhu, emptiness, motivation illa. Depression sucks.
Self-care warning signs. Beard unkempt-a irukku, plates, bowls wash pannala-nu pile aagudhu, hoover pannala, shower eppo panninen-nu check pannanum. Vigilant-a irukkanum, always success aagala, aana low pogumbodhu recognize pannuren.
Future pathi look forward pannamudiyala. Self-a lose pannuradhu. Loneliness. Drive illa.
Permanent death wish. Yaarum idhu pathi pesala, nothing to say. Nothing makes sense.
Busy-a irundhalum, bedtime seekiram varanumnu pannuren. Busy happy illa, aana palar adha maari paakranga.
Body pain.
Memory loss, cognitive decline maari feel pannudhu. Remembering tough, understanding, vocalizing thoughts, communication, brainpower theva padura edhuvum impossible. Numbness, feel pannala, think pannala. Scary.
ADHD maari symptoms. Impulsivity, executive dysfunction, focus issues. Palarukku mental illnesses ADHD maari mimic pannudhu. Doctor suspect pannumbodhu upset aaguranga. Anxiety control pannina apparam ADHD symptoms kammi aachu.
Friends lose pannuradhu. Recover pannuradhu late aagudhu, friends kammi aaguranga. Isolation depression-a worse pannudhu. Support group theva, force pannu, help pannum.
Mental gymnastics pannanum, edhuvum pannuradhukku.
Invisible feel pannuradhu, numb feel pannuradhu, illa numb-a feel pannanum-nu wish pannuradhu, reason illama rage.
Music listen pannamudiyala, bored aagudhu, song full-a kettukooda mudiyala, interest lose pannuren.
Longing. Depression teen years-a consume pannidhu. Fun enjoy pannirukkanum, aana hospital wards-la, mind-la prisoner-a irundhen. Adhu years-a thirumba varadhu. Ippo job, independent aaguradhu, world reject pannudhu.
Depression creeps up. Cycles-la varudhu, “Idhu just me today” nu assume pannuren, aana 3 weeks bed-la irukken, talk pannamudiyala, feel pannamudiyala. Game console on pannuren, TV paakuren. Work paakuren, pannamudiyala. Guilt mattum feel pannuren.
Ruminating mind. Life pathi deep-a think pannuren. Alive irukken, ungrateful-a irukken, hell possibility-nala irukkanum. Heaven mattum venum. Parents kid venumnu pannadhunal suffer pannuren.
Intentionally hurting yourself.
Yaarum help pannala. Ellarum ignorant-a irukranga, illa vera yaar kitta kelu-nu solluranga. “Ellarum unnai love pannuranga” illa, yaarum pannala. 8 billion people, naan enna special? Professional kitta kooda try pannadha, title just mask. Human-a irukadha.
Narcissism, self-centeredness. Medical professionals mattum idhu pathi pesuranga.
Memory issues.
Care pannala, depression heavy-a irukkumbodhu, drugs use pannura maari behave pannuren, song loud-a paaduren, anxiety illa, yenna care illa. Dress, nice-a irukradhu stop pannuren. Embarrassed feel pannuren apparam.
Place change pannalum difference feel pannala. Store-la irundhalum home maari feel pannudhu. Food taste illa. MDD-la severe anhedonia irukku.
Surroundings suffer pannudhu. Live pannuradhu tough, household maintain pannuradhu tough.
Random allergies, histamine intolerance, chronic stress-nala. Somatic symptoms, GERD, chronic migraines, explain pannamudiyala. Health psych class-la, chaotic household-la grow pannina stunted growth varum-nu therinjidhu.
Poor memory.
Fake laughing with friends, home poganum, bed-la irukkanum, time stop pannanum, breathe pannanum.
Pushing others away, help dislike pannuradhu. Everything fake, forced maari feel pannudhu. Need people, aana help pannuravangalai push pannuren.
Sexual actions abuse pannuradhu, illa sexual actions illa. Women’s vaginal health-kum impact pannudhu.
Binge eating. Health give up pannumbodhu depression heavy-a irukku.
Love deserve pannala-nu feel pannuren, hug venum, talk pannuradhu enough. Relationship venum-nu illa, partner struggle pannuradhu fair illa. Lonely time venum, partner understand pannalanu bayam. Perfect partner venum, mutual understanding venum. Hard, aana self-a find pannanum. Alone irukradhu okay.
Depression-la flu maari achy feel. Fatigue, body hurts.
Quiet desperation.
Shower pannala, appearance pathi bad feel. Teeth brush pannuradhu tough, smile pannala.
Energy illa. 4 triathlons pannina maari feel, aana onnum pannala. Frustrating. Anxiety or depression symptoms blur aagudhu, identify pannuradhu tough.
Nothing-a irukken. Sad illa, happy illa, angry illa. Void of nothingness.
Better aana apparam, photos paathen, depression time-la off-a irundhen. Before sunny, bright-a irundhen, sad-a feel panninen.
Emotion absence. Every day same. Something fill pannanumnu try pannuren, aana nothing works. Self-care, belongings neglect pannuren. Shower skip pannuren, hair brush pannala, body aches, meds edukkala. Just existing, presentable-a irukken.
Ellaraiyum push pannuren.
Appetite illa, weight loss-nu associate pannuranga, aana naan weight gain panninen, eating coping mechanism-a irundhadhu. Ippo weight lose panniten, aana weight gain mental health decline-oda associate pannuren.
Laziness, guilt. Lazy illa, yenna lazy people guilt feel pannala. School skip pannuren, bad feel pannuren, mom passive-aggressive-a irukku. Dishes pannala, guilt. School, dishes pannanum, legs broken maari feel, pannamudiyala.
Emotions feel pannala.
Rage, bitterness.
Physical pain, headaches, stomach issues, appetite changes, sleep problems, concentration tough, irritability, rejection sensitivity, emotionally numb. Mental health professional help theva.
Connect pannamudiyala. Depression heavy-a irukkumbodhu, naan mattum experience pannuren-nu feel. Others relate pannuradhu invalidating maari irukku. Pain extreme, unbearable. Conversation-la present irukkamudiyala, absent-a irukken. Comfort people kitta thirumba poguren, exes, messy people. Masturbation romba pannuren.
Complete numbness. Body-lerndhu checked out, check in pannuradhu eppadi-nu theriyala.
Apathy, silence, zoning out, brain fog.
Tired always. Sleep, coffee eduthalum tired. Others understand pannala.
Sighing romba. Jaw, chest, stomach tense, heavy, breathing tough. Partner point pannina apparam therinjidhu.
Tired, rest venum.
Sense of humor irukku. Funniest people depression-oda deal pannuranga.
Distrust, close-a yaarum illa, ruin pannuradhu bayam.
Heavy, hard, tough feel always. Cold, physical pain depression time-la irundhadhu.
Empty feel. Emptiness denial-oda irukku. Trauma, emotions cope pannuradhu. Sad, disgusted, empty-nu feel pannuren. Denial-la irundhen, life deserve pannala-nu nenachen. Emptiness-a challenge pannanum, stable life live pannanum, denial-a tear pannanum. Bottom-la irundhu explore pannuren, pace set pannuren. Kind, peaceful-a irundhu authentic-a irukkanum.
Emotion illa. Mood swings, crying, blankly staring. Memory loss, happy memories forget pannuren, always depressed-nu illusion.
Intrusive thoughts worse aagudhu, bad things pathi.
Everything great-nu pretend pannuren, burden pannala.
Appointments skip pannuren, no show.
Chest hurts, soul body-lerndhu veliya irukku, 3rd person view-la paakuren. Miserable-a irukken, fix pannamudiyala.
Depression-la emotions strong-a feel pannum. Therapy years panninen, BPD diagnosis, correct treatment vandhadhu.
Comments relatable.
Recurring depression, mental clutter, overwhelming feelings, sleepless nights, drug usage, eating too much or less, real loneliness, random crying, worthlessness, suicidal thoughts, harmful activities, excessive spending, risky behavior, compassion illa, motivation illa, clean pannuradhu tough, stress, bathe pannina apparam physically, mentally better.
Suicidal thoughts daily.
Informative comments, insightful.
Care pannamudiyala, effort theva, joy illa, unlovable feel, burden illa, faith illa, grieve pannuren past self-a.
Mind busy, connections illa, brain heavy, fog-la irukku. Scary.
Memory loss, prolonged struggle.
Things good-nu solluren, issue address pannala.
Low libido, numb, tired, emotional energy illa.
Time, 4 months bed-la, 3 days maari feel pannuren. Timeline lose pannuren.
“What’s the point?” 24/7 question. Every day same cycle, colorful picture black and white-a fade aagudhu.
ADHD heightens, time blindness, shower tough, eating disorder, exhaustion, sleep pannala.
Anxiety, PTSD, clinical depression trigger pannudhu.
Sick aaguradhu, headaches, fevers, rashes.
Hygiene, food choose pannuradhu, energy illa.
People understand pannala, gaslight pannuranga, symptoms pop culture depression-uku against pogumbodhu faking-nu solluranga. Chronic illness tragedy.
Cognitive impact, mind dull, memory, concentration slip pannudhu.
Preoccupation with death, loved ones lose pannuradhu pathi think pannuren.
Loved ones love pannuradhu enough illa-nu feel, capacity illa.
Drinking alone daily.
Physical pain, pain meds prescribe pannuranga.
Going along without wanting.
Silence handle pannamudiyala, thoughts loud aagudhu.
Self-sabotage, life ruin pannanum-nu feel, career, loved ones abandon pannuren.
Hygiene down, bathroom use pannuradhu tough, pain in fingers, hobbies miss pannuren, trapped feel.
No escape, depression always around, fuck off sollu, appreciate pannuren time.
Emotional memory excellent, actual memory sucks.
Stories create pannuren, non-existent people-oda.
Not wanting to get better, overwhelming, comfort in depression.
Focus altered, disorganized, doom scroll, isolate.
Meds-la less sick, recover fast. Depression-la sick romba, meds stop pannina apparam sick.
Depersonalization.
Motivation illa.
Random physical symptoms, nausea, IBS, back ache, muscle weakness, migraines. Depression lift aana apparam symptoms pogudhu.
Memory loss, debilitating, frustrating, concentration illa, decisions tough.
Scared, people enna think pannuranga-nu overthink, parents kitta pesuradhu shy, love feel pannala, public-la run pannala, fragile, small stuff upset pannudhu.
Mind less sharp, complex topics learn pannuradhu tough.
Depression trick pannudhu, healed-nu nenachen, aana relapse. Hygiene neglect panninen, ippo fixate pannuren, diet neglect pannuren. Animals obsession, cats-oda attached, loss pannina apparam distress.
Emotion explode pannudhu, hold pannuren, slight provocation-la varudhu.
Vertical position-la irukkuradhu effort.
Suicidal ideation, hygiene issues, anhedonia less talked.
Depressive episodes worse aagudhu, TMS, CBT, meds, EMDR help pannudhu, emotions island-la irukku.
Hygiene, basic care forget pannuren.
Daily hygiene tasks struggle, shower, teeth brush, face wash tough.
Kids depression-la headaches, stomach aches, morning less awake.
Not looking forward to stuff, enthusiasm kammi.
Anhedonia, food taste illa, music annoying, talking exhausting, nothing fun.
Every day same.
Empty, zombie maari, bed-la rot pannuren, self-care pannamudiyala.
Room-la stay pannuren.
Numbness, not crying, just existing, no joy, no interest, gun point pannalum flinch pannala.
Physical pain, joint pain, headaches, numbness, TV static maari.
Boredom, nothing feels same, itch scratch pannamudiyala.
Body aches, crumpling maari.
High-risk situations, don’t care live or die, crappy partners, reckless things.
Space venum-nu 2 months room-la irukken, sunlight 2 hours.
Mental isolation.
Physical, mental pain real-nu others think pannala.
Hygiene, living conditions neglect, mental exhaustion, worthlessness, no self-love.
Body aches, low immunity.
Coffee love-nala illa, habit-nala kudikuren.
Brain fog, think straight pannamudiyala, spacey, work slow aagudhu.
Psychomotor agitation, restless, fidgety.
Burden feel pannuren.
Masking, symptoms behind closed doors.
Cry pannamudiyala, no future thinking.
Tired or hyperactive, appetite changes, libido changes, isolate or reckless, digestive issues, back, neck pains.
Diminished mental capacity, stupid feel, basic tasks fuck up.
Long-term issues, weak immune, cognitive impairment, job impact, financial problems, relationships strain, substance abuse.
Tunnel vision, bed-la irukkuradhu good illa, numb roller coaster, opportunities miss pannuren, friends lose pannuren, lonely, quiet, sentence form pannamudiyala.
Fatigue, always tired, existing-nala.
Everyone hates you-nu feel.
Robot mode, no joy, empty chest, poor hygiene, bad eating habits.
Anger, anxiety, depression-oda connected.
Concentration loss, passive death wish.
Disassociation, former self lost, observe pannuren.
Psychosis, paranoia, everyone hates, black and white thinking, despair.
Hair loss, cold feel.
Rumination.
Happiest person show, unmaiyila illa.
All or no emotion, express pannuradhu different.
Heart hurts, dog died apparam, memory loss, high school memories illa, bed rotting, disassociate, numbness, nothing phases.
Complete apathy, no joy, no attention.
Numbness, cry pannala, diagnosed apparam.
Body aches, move pannamudiyala.
Hair loss.
Unmoved, stoic illa, numbness.
Talk pannuradhu scary, contagious maari, others depress pannuren-nu feel.
Home-la irukkanum, aana truly home feel pannala.
Self-hate, treatment-resistant depression, parents, foster care-nala self-blame.
Brain fog, TMS apparam function pannuren.
Not suicidal, no interest in living, stuck, opportunities lose, sad.
Stomach, digestive pain, mind-gut connection.
Morning enna panninen, evening enna pannuven-nu imagine pannamudiyala, moment-la irukken.
Moody, critical, jealous, isolation, tired of living.
Disinterest, hobbies, essential functions, effort theva padura anything.
Memory loss.
Depression always there, mistake in painting maari, hole feel pannuren.
Self-care, irritability.
Hair knotted, brush pannala, broken tooth neglect panninen.
Hygiene issues.
Slow-a move pannuren.
Happy-a irukkuradhu uncomfortable.
Auto pilot, PTSD, Bipolar, low-la essential tasks, mandatory talk, eat, sleep, repeat. Others hurt pannudhu, low power mode.
Breakfast food mattum eat pannuren.
Memory issues, brain cheese maari, permanent-a feel pannudhu.
Okay one day, mess next day.
Comfort in mental illness.
Post-depressive episode, screw up realize pannuren, hopelessness, guilt.
Wanting to do things, aana not wanting, guilt, Planet Fitness membership example.
Cheerful facade, trigger vandha disappear, emotions extreme, motivation days, narcissists attract pannuranga.
7 years, friends lose pannuren, loneliness, self-esteem gone.
Not motivated, hobbies unenjoyable, fatigue, forgetful, diet changes.
Small thing piss off pannudhu, depression cause.
Vague feeling words-la perfect-a describe pannita.
Apathy, nice and trash, no interests, joy illa.
Every day nothing, weird feel.
Numbness, months apparam breakdown, sobbing, sleeping talent, no pain in sleep.
Apathy, stress-nala numb, coping mechanism, interest lose, avoidance.
Anti-depressant work pannumbodhu feelings realize panninen, crying.
Pink Floyd Comfortably Numb describe pannudhu.
Empty vessel, just existing.
Nailed description.
Describes exactly, glad to think about.
Default setting big sad between.
Fake emotion, exhausting.
Dissociation constant.
Depression medicine childhood-la, willpower-oda veliya vandhen, divorce apparam familiar feel.
Numbness levels, soul left body, robot maari, bizarre, emotional break venum.
Gray feel, amazing event apparam gray thirumba vandhadhu.
Sadness void aagudhu, too quiet, neither here nor there.
Words-la feeling describe pannita, thank you.
Less responsive, not excited, let it be attitude.
Relatable, thank you.
Fine = Fucked up, Insecure, Emotional, Neurotic.
Depression selfish condition, basic needs focus, pain focus, outside paakamudiyala.
Bathroom safe place, depressive episode-la 3 times shower, crying, dissociating.
Shower one hour, barely home on time, just fine.
Moving help pannudhu, new shower comfortable.
Thank you.
Huge one.
High school memories blur.
Recent events remember pannala.
Passion dies, months nothing interesting.
Kids book re-read pannuren, comforting.
Choice energy-oda decide pannuren, anime, embroider, read tough.
TV love pannuren, aana nothing works.
Everything terrible feel.
Showers, clean clothes stick pannu, baby steps.
Work poguradhu hope pannuren.
4 years blur, not lived.
6 months like this.
Semester waste, workload tough, headaches, tinnitus.
Irritability, boyfriend fixer, nothing helps, expected more, roof, food irukku.
Punch wall feel.
Know this, me.
Gut-brain link, mental health improve pannina gut better.
Gut, brain frenemies, IBS.
Antidepressants, antacids stomach issues fix pannudhu.
Somatic symptoms, Asian-Americans, African-Americans more prone.
Stomach weird sounds, anxiety worse.
Anxiety poops real.
Second nervous system in gut, serotonin gut-la irukku.
Anxiety related.
GI issues mental health precursor, loop thinking, bad thoughts repeat.
Extreme one way or other.
Documentaries, murder shows, weather disasters.
Trying to feel worse, hits a spot.
Negative content consume pannuren, happy shit paakamudiyala.
Conspiracy, true crime binge, no emotional reaction, apathetic.
Not oblivious, can’t stop behaviors, strange cycle.
Teeth grinding illa, not depressed-nu joke.
Accurate depression description.
Self-care lack, spiral down, self-care help pannudhu.
Shower pannina better feel.
Not looking forward to meeting people.
Don’t want to die, not here venum.
Depression never leaves.
Chest pains count.
Body aches, active-a irundhalum, shoulders, neck, legs ache, massage venum.
IQ 35 points low, depression diagnosis.
Memory loss not caring-nala?
Fumbling, coordination wrecked, short-term memory issues.
Wrong words write pannuren.
Comments realize pannina, therapist paakkanum.
ADHD depression, anxiety cause pannudhu.
Friends don’t care, go away.
Hyperfixated on band, album, hate apparam.
Teen, anxious, personality changes, not myself.
Phone stare pannuren, guilt, regret.
Eternal peace venum, help tough, drown in poisons.
Bad experience, alone till 21, professional help pannina.
Others uncomfortable, isolate pannuren.
Result of depression.
Want help, aana get pannumbodhu don’t want.
Explain more.
Hits hard.
Teeth brush twice a week, plaque scrape pannuren.
Comfort person.
BPD overwhelming, hope better now.
Depression great sarcasm.
Sick romba, depression worse.
Can’t tell him what to do.
Not unknown symptom.
ED symptoms, eat well?
Friend numb feel pannina, now identify pannuren.
Explains my experience.
Apathy word.
Pinpoint perfect.
Anhedonia, numb, void of emotion.
Comfort in sadness, depression normal aachu.
Discover numbness cause, uproot pannu, no pressure.
Breakdowns refreshing.
Bipolar sleep patterns, psychiatrist talk.
Anhedonia right word.
Mood stabilizers apathetic pannidhu, dose high.
Explore soul connection, curious.
Clear understanding, take down opponent.
Pain focus, others tough.
Sickness of will, getting out of bed herculean.
Subconsciously doing this, social battery dead, words tough.
Shower safe place, relax pannudhu, timer set pannuren.
Memories emotions-oda, numb-nala recall tough.
Trigger vandha memories recall pannuren.
2021 memories illa.
Recent memories trigger venum.
Body heavy, weak.
YA book re-read, helps.
Helpless, root change pannamudiyala.
Explains a lot.
Microbiome related.
Anxiety, depression, IBS sucks.
Dissociation.
Happy stuff fake feel.
What’s that mean?
Fav people time spend pannuren, maintain relationships.
Pause button hit pannanum.
World end pannina great.
Not die, not exist, never born.
In remission, knife’s edge.
Anxiety, depression physical health toll.
Irregular heartbeat, anxiety attack.
Eeyore posture, tight pecs, neck, shoulder pain.
Mood flat.
ADHD, depression mimic, doctors tough, improve symptoms.
Psychiatrist faith, not anti-ADHD, other causes rule out.
Friend no contact, “let you be” nu sollu.
Keep pushing, new psych professionals, Bipolar 2 diagnosis, life better.
Depression same age start.
IOP group favorite, dark thoughts candid-a share.
Never changes.
Masturbation no thoughts, feel good hormones.
Not alone feeling.
Main character, depression fuck off.
ED symptoms not diagnosed, daily calories try.
Flat affect.
Anhedonia, no joy, no interest.
Void of emotion, interest.
Sleeping live in dreams, medication, therapy, habits assess.
Sobbing refreshing.
BPD remission, ADHD sleep struggle.
SSRI different.
Shower too long, late aagudhu, zoning out toilet-la.
ADHD underdiagnosed, comorbid, research need.
Hashimoto’s, vitamin D deficient, comorbid disorders.
Lucid dream, stomach shuts down, smoothie force pannuren.
Sleeping treasure, insomnia sucks.
Vitamin D, hormones hair loss, coldness.
Lucid dreams agony kammi.
Protein meal shakes, Huel, digestive enzymes help.
Sleep avoid problems, BPD friend talk, managed.
Vitamin D dose increase.