"""Shape ah iru"" ena slang da idhu
You are a great person. When I was in the same state as your friend, none of my friends gave a shit. Go meet him take him to some restaurant, eat and listen to him. May your tribe increase:)
""Shape ah iru"" na enna?
Depression is being overused and romanticised in social media. Clinical depression is something which is diagnosed by a psychiatrist . If you feel someone is not doing good , first ask them whether are they ok and need any help.
Who tf asks that straight away? Prechana irrundha depression irrkum ah? To be there for someone battling depression ngra Peru la people are forgetting eppo yenna pesuradhu nu. I appreciate your concern towards him, but this is not the correct way to ask someone. Also the way he switched from Machan to bro, I guess he is just annoyed/fed up with the prechana he is going through. PS: You might know more about him that led you to think he might be depressed. I said things from what I could get to know about him from this conversation.
People need an ear, to rant or to vent out. I would say there is nothing wrong in asking but be respectful. Also, charge podu ney :)
I hv worked with few psychiatric pts... Oru call panni palaya kathai pesunga bro knjm neram. Then probe this topic... Prachanai solved ah nu. Give him a place to vent. If he is comfortable enough to share with you , he would. Illana force pannatheenga... Let him knw u r there and ask him to reach out if he needs anything. Also plan something like meet up with a small gang. These are all you could do to help him as a friend.
Meet in person.
I would suggest to talk to him in person. Sometimes people don't tell even when they are depressed even to their close friends. Try to tell him your personal worry or worries to get him to open up. That worked on me by my psychiatrist. I didn't open up and he told me how his father didn't treat him as a doctor as he took up psychiatry rather than brain surgery like his father. I took network engineering rather than be a programmer and my father didn't support me at all. So, be patient, don't straight away ask him about his mental health. Message him daily about 'nothings' till you feel you can ask him about this. Again, it is better to do in person. I am really proud of you to care about your friend. You are an awesome friend 👍
It could be some temporary stressful situation too, but nevertheless you tried to care which is good! Also I feel people that are genuinely struggling with depression may not really talk About it at the first instance itself or insinuate that very directly(I may be generalizing but this is what I have noted personally) infact, you might not even know they are depressed until you notice a pattern of veiled instances. Anyway, good that you want to be a friend in need and so hope you are able to do something good for your friend!
Ivanunga vera memes paathutu sad ah irundhalae depression nu per vechikiranuvo. 🤡
Belated happy birthday, OP!
If your friend needs counseling, it's better he sees a qualified professional.
Lol
Look after your wellbeing first, while you support your friend. Been through too many ""friendships"" where I had to listen to hours of rambling, and got insulted and abused for setting up boundaries after I mustered up the courage. Best of luck to you and your friend.
apo close friend ey ila
Last month i forgot my friend's birthday because i was busy with something else & then he called me up few days later asking me why i never wished him. I made up the same story..konjam veetu tension le irrundhe, so wish panna mudiyale"". Maybe he just simply forgot.
Lmao
Go and meet him if possible and have a vent\rant session could help him
Bloody GenZ
Yep definitely go check on him, you never know about your friends when life gets in the way. I lost a friend too very recently.
Same question, is this a north madras thing that I’m too south madras to understand?
Ah nanga Sri Lanka la ipidi than slangla pullingovoda talk poduvom. Ithu usualah irukkura mari sagajama valu antha mari meaning bro
Stay in shape translated into Tamil 😂
Maybe it's supposed to be safe ah iru
New response just dropped
[deleted]
Thank you so much buddy for the compliments. I actually wanted to ask because in case anything happens no point in being reactive so I tried to be proactive and just had those thoughts about him. Normally, he is not that guy who will fed up as I have known him for a long time. I am the one who actually get mood swings compared to him. Well how about your state right now buddy. I hope you are doing well. Well he is actually stuck with work and accounting lectures so I don't know when we can meet together but hopefully your suggestions will work out.
Going and meeting is the perfect suggestion. However, I'll tell you this much that handling a person not in a good mental state is difficult. It's not as simple as going and meeting them and talking to them a few times. It helps definitely, but might not reverse the situation completely. I'll suggest taking him to a counselor or psychologist as well when possible. Don't forget that it's a big commitment, and it could be exhausting / overwhelming
Normal ah irunu artham bro.
safe
Ah man I should not have asked that straight away. I was dumb af as I was in workplace and to be honest I was wondering why he didn't wish me on my birthday (I knew something was definitely wrong in his life). Because he was born the day before me so he obviously knows my birthday. I wished him as usual but he replied late and that gave me a hint that something was not right with him. He even told me that he quit insurance because it was stressful and he joined a company as accounts assistant. He says all days are packed and I never seen him that panicked and depressed like that in my life. He is a positive guy. Yeah adulthood can sucks at times and I think it got into him
Mental health deterioration is a serious concern. Of late one of our college mate (same batch mate but different stream) ended his life. He was very introvert. Despite we having multiple whatsapp group no one was aware what is going on with him.
Hey thank you very much 😊
It's neither. Sri Lankan Tamil paasha paa.
vativama iru mama
Nah shape is a term we usually use among friends to indicate whether everything is fine and okay and the response to it is ""shape da machan scene illa""
I'm definitely use shape ah iru to bid someone to keep healthy 😆
Same ! When u open up to someone they start to judge you and it’s too much to take it ! Namma comfort aalam nu manasu la irkadha pesuvom avanga vandhu ipdi irndhrkalam apdi irndhrkalam nu judge pantu suthitu irpanga ! Too much.. Also i feel they start to see u in a diff way once u open up ! Nanu Adhunala dhan trying to keep most of my stuffs with myself and let out only things carefully which i wanted to say ! Hope you’re doing good :)
Ha ha, I am perfectly well now . Those things were way long back. Now doing good 😊
Thanks bro.
Oh
Actually boys when seeing girls in SL :- ponnu vadiva irukkada. Antha pettai superah vadiva irukkada. (Vadivu means beautiful) Here in SL boys refer to girls in various terms like ""size"", ""pettai"", ""pulla"", ""pottachi"" etc.
Wow never heard this before. But it does sound nice indeed.
Correct bro, That's because most people don't want to listen to you. They just want to give a solution to your problem or basically feel like they've solved your problem. It's not like they are judging us all the time. Sometimes people are impatient or inconsiderate
[deleted]
Ah niceeee